This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. To learn more, view the following link: Privacy Policy

FDIC Insured Backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government
Skip to Main Content
Sunflower Bank
Search site:Submit search
Search

About Us
Find A Location
Contact Us
Commercial & Specialty
Wealth Management
Business
Personal
Mortgage Lending

Login


Important Fraud Alert: We have received reports from customers of phone, electronic, and mailed communications that falsely represent Sunflower Bank and/or our employees.  If you are contacted by someone claiming to be from Sunflower Bank and you're concerned that it might not be legitimate, contact us directly through a verified phone number. Remember, we will never ask you to provide your online baking login credentials or account information. Customer Care is available at 888.377.8265 for additional assistance. 


Mortgage Customers:
Please note that you may receive your Escrow Analysis twice - once as a standalone document and again bundled with your Year-End Statements. The Escrow Analysis statements are identical, and no further action is required by you.
Home About Us Resource Articles Giving Stock to Another Person
Person using calculator
Giving Stock to Another Person
05/15/24

One of the most common and easiest estate planning tools is simply giving assets to a family member. The tax laws enable gifting up to $18,000 to anyone per year without triggering the need to file a gift tax return for 2024. In fact, a married couple can elect a technique called “gift splitting” and give up to $36,000 per year. It doesn’t matter what form the gift takes – cash, securities or some other asset.

Why give to a family member?
Transferring assets to a family member while still alive reduces the size of your ultimate estate and potentially reduces any estate taxes that may be due. In addition, any growth in the value of the asset accrues to the recipient further reducing your estate.

But perhaps the most important reasons for making a current gift to a family member currently are the person needs the assets or you just want to show your generosity. You can see the person receiving and enjoying the gift.

Special income tax rules for gifts of stock.
Giving stock to another person does not trigger any income taxes at the time of the gift. The new owner can decide when to sell the stock and must deal with the taxes at that point. The critical issue is “What is the new owner’s tax basis in the shares?” To determine the answer, you must know the stock’s basis for the original owner, the fair market value on the date of the gift and whether any gift taxes were paid at the time of the gift.

The rules are somewhat complicated, and you may want to consult your tax advisor, but here are some examples:

If the gift’s fair market value at the time of the gift is greater than the donor’s basis, the new owner will assume the basis of the donor. The new owner would pay tax on that difference when he or she sells the stock.

Assume a mother owned 100 shares of XYZ stock that she bought for $50 per share. She has a tax basis of $5000. At the time of the gift, the shares were worth $70 per share or $7000. She gives the shares to her son and he sells them for $80 per share or $8000. The son reports a gain of $3000 ($8000 minus $5000) when he sells the shares.

If the gift’s fair market value at the time of the gift is less than the donor’s basis, the new owner’s tax basis depends on whether the new owner sells the asset for a gain or a loss. If the asset is ultimately sold for a gain (compared to the original owner’s basis), the new owner’s basis will be the original owner’s basis.

Assume a mother owned 100 shares of XYZ stock that she bought for $50 per share. She has a tax basis of $5000. At the time of the gift, the shares were worth $40 per share or $4000. She gives the shares to her son and he sells them for $80 per share or $8000. The son reports a gain of $3000 ($8000 minus $5000).

If the asset is ultimately sold for a loss (compared to the fair market value at the time of the gift), the new owner’s basis will be the fair market value at the time of the gift.

Assume a mother owned 100 shares of XYZ stock that she bought for $50 per share. She has a tax basis of $5000. At the time of the gift, the shares were worth $40 per share or $4000. She gives the shares to her son and he sells them for $30 per share or $3000. The son reports a loss of $1000 ($3000 minus $4000).

If the asset is ultimately sold for something between the original owner’s basis and the fair market value at the time of the gift, there is no gain or loss to report.

Assume a mother owned 100 shares of XYZ stock that she bought for $50 per share. She has a tax basis of $5000. At the time of the gift, the shares were worth $40 per share or $4000. If the son sells the shares for between $4000 and $5000, there will be no gain or loss to report.

Summary
Giving shares of stock or other assets to a family member can serve many purposes. However, the tax rules can be complicated. Before making such a gift, be sure this is something you really want to do and make sure you have the necessary tax basis information.

Personal – Saving, Planning & Budgeting
Ready to explore how Sunflower Bank can assist you? Speak to a personal banker at a branch near you, contact a specialist on our Wealth Management team, or find the right financial partner on our Commercial Banking team for your business needs. 

Back to Resource Articles
This article contains general information only. Sunflower Bank, N.A. is not, by means of this article, rendering accounting, financial, investment, legal, tax, or other professional advice or services. This article is not a substitute for such professional advice or services, before making any decisions related to these matters, you should consult a qualified professional advisor.
 

Sunflower Bank logo
Connect With Us
Facebook(Opens in a new window)
Twitter(Opens in a new window)
LinkedIn(Opens in a new window)
YouTube(Opens in a new window)
Routing #: 101100621

Helpful Links
Privacy Center
Terms & Agreements
Ethics Hotline
Contact Us
Locations
Sitemap
Bank Holiday Schedule
About Us
Company Information
Investor Relations(Opens in a new window)
Community Involvement
ABC Program for Education
Careers
News
Services
Commercial & Specialty
Wealth Management
Business
Business Current Promotions
Personal
Personal Current Promotions
Our Family Of Brands
Sunflower Bank | First National 1870 logo
Equal Housing Lender logo
Copyright © 2026 Sunflower Bank, N.A. | “Sunflower Bank” and “First National 1870” and their logos are registered trademarks of Sunflower Bank, N.A. | First National 1870, a division of Sunflower Bank, N.A. | NMLS# 709491 | Member FDIC
sunflower