Skip Navigation
logo
Loans
Credit Cards
Mortgages
Taxes
Insurance
Banking
+More


Our top picks of timely offers from our partners
More details

QuickBooks
Learn More
Terms Apply
Paid Placement
QuickBooks
Track your expenses with QuickBooks - 70% off for a limited time
Geico Auto Insurance
Learn More
Terms Apply
Geico Auto Insurance
Geico offers low average rates and coverage is available nationwide.
Monarch
Learn More
Terms Apply
Monarch
Our top pick for being easy to use, Monarch’s budgeting app is 50% off your first year with code CNBC50
Bluevine
Learn More
Terms Apply
Bluevine
Bluevine offers fast funding options for your small business
SBG Funding
Learn More
Terms Apply
SBG Funding
Fast and flexible financing options for your small business
Select independently determines what we cover and recommend. We earn a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links. This commission may impact how and where certain products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). Read more about Select on CNBC, and click here to read our full advertiser disclosure.
Investing
How you can gift someone stocks this holiday season
Purchasing stocks for yourself is simple, but what about buying stocks for someone else?
Updated Fri, Nov 1 2024
By Brett Holzhauer, Reporter
Brett Holzhauer
Reporter
Share
Share Article via Facebook
Share Article via Twitter
Share Article via LinkedIn
Share Article via Email

Caiaimage/Paul Bradbury | Caiaimage | Getty Images
TD Ameritrade, Inc. has been acquired by Charles Schwab, and all accounts have been moved.

Since the start of the pandemic, investing in the stock market has become more and more popular. With headlines of meme stocks, the latest cryptocurrency trends and everyday Americans making big money in the stock market, Americans are excited about investing — including kids.

So instead of worrying about buying the latest and greatest gift from Amazon or Target, consider giving the gift that keeps on giving — company ownership through stocks.

Whether you have a minor or an adult in mind, Select details how you can gift stocks this holiday season, and what to consider before doing so.

Subscribe to the Select Newsletter!
Our best selections in your inbox. Shopping recommendations that help upgrade your life, delivered weekly. Sign-up here.

How to gift stocks
If you want to gift stocks, there are a few different approaches, depending on who you are giving it to and how much you are gifting.

Here are the situations to consider, the potential tax implications and how to keep the holiday spirit involved.

For kids: custodial accounts
If your gift recipient is a minor (under 18 years old) and you plan to gift them stock ownership, be sure they have the proper accounts set up. For example, the parent(s) can set up a UTMA or UGMA brokerage account, which is a custodial account controlled by the adult until the child is no longer a minor.

Once the account is set up, the stock can be directly transferred from one account to another. Keep in mind that there is no return policy on this gift — once it’s gifted, it’s now their property.

Consider your own company’s stock options
If you work for a company with a employee stock purchase program (ESPP), you’re able to immediately gift those shares to someone else, while also earning a valuable tax deduction for yourself.

Typically, employees of publicly traded companies are given a discount on the retail price investors pay. This works by employees electing to have money taken out each paycheck, and then they are awarded stocks during specific periods throughout the year. Each ESPP program works differently, so be sure to consult your human resources department for more information.

This may require some forward planning on your end, along with consulting a tax professional, but this could be a fun way to make your gift recipient “your boss,” as they would own shares of the company you work for. And because you are purchasing the shares at a discount, your gift recipient may have a head start on earning solid returns.

Virtual transfers from one brokerage to another
If your gift recipient is an adult, the process is a bit simpler. All you will need is the recipient’s basic personal information and details of their brokerage account. From there, you can input their information into your brokerage account to have the securities transferred to their account. Specific transfer policies vary, so check with your brokerage about what is needed to initiate a stock transfer.

If they don’t have a brokerage account currently open you could use a platform like Stockpile to give them a digital gift card to redeem for an individual stock like Netflix or Tesla, or to purchase stocks of their choice. This is a great way to get someone started with investing that may not already be saving for the future.

Keep taxes in mind
Stocks are considered property, and they are subject to taxes. Here are a few tax implications to consider:

Gift taxes: According to the IRS, the maximum gift amount you can receive per year without incurring any taxes is $15,000 for single-filers, and $30,000 for married couples. The lifetime gift limit for one person to give is $11.7 million. If the amount is over either of these thresholds, the donor is typically responsible for the tax penalty. And this figure is not based on the value you purchased the stock at before gifting, but rather the fair market value at the time of gifting.
Capital gains taxes: If the recipient of the stocks decides to immediately sell the stock for a profit, they would be responsible for any related capital gain taxes. This also depends on the initial purchase price of the stock and how long the original owner held the shares.′
When it comes to taxes, it is always advised to consult with a tax professional. Everyone’s taxes are unique, and should be handled by someone who is a certified accountant or tax preparer.

How to keep the holiday spirit
Publicly traded companies have basically ended issuing physical paper stocks, so the idea of having something to wrap and unwrap is gone. However, there are alternatives to keep the holiday joy going.

You can use UniqueStockGift or GiveAShare to order physical stocks printed and shipped to be framed. For example, consider buying a ‘physical’ share of Disney for a child who is a big Disney fan.

The stock will be purchased at market value, and then the security will be issued in the gift recipient’s name. This stock will come with a unique ID number and is held with a transfer agent that keeps record of all issued stocks. If your gift recipient wants to either transfer the shares to a digital brokerage or sell the stock completely, the physical stock certificate must be mailed to a Direct Registration System (DRS).

A physical stock certificate is no different than a stock you purchase digitally, and it can make for a great holiday gift for someone to unwrap.

Best brokerage accounts
If you are considering gifting someone stock, or if you’re on the receiving end, it’s best to open up a brokerage account for yourself ahead of time. It takes about five minutes to get started, and you will be able to start investing in publicly traded companies right away.

Here are a few of our favorite brokerages to begin investing:

Fidelity Investments
Learn More
Minimum deposit and balance
Minimum deposit and balance requirements may vary depending on the investment vehicle selected. No minimum to open a Fidelity Go® account, but minimum $10 balance for robo-advisor to start investing

Fees
Fees may vary depending on the investment vehicle selected. Zero commission fees for stock, ETF, options trades and some mutual funds; zero transaction fees for over 3,400 mutual funds; $0.65 per options contract. Fidelity Go® has no advisory fees for balances under $25,000 (0.35% per year for balances of $25,000 and over and this includes access to unlimited 1-on-1 coaching calls from a Fidelity advisor)

Bonus
Find special offers here

Investment vehicles
Robo-advisor: Fidelity Go® IRA: Traditional, Roth and Rollover IRAs Brokerage and trading: Fidelity Investments Trading Other: Fidelity Investments 529 College Savings; Fidelity HSA®

Investment options
Stocks, bonds, ETFs, mutual funds, CDs, options and fractional shares

Educational resources
Extensive tools and industry-leading, in-depth research from 20-plus independent providers

Terms apply.

Pros
No commission fees for stock, ETF, options trades
No transaction fees for over 3,400 mutual funds
Limited-time special offers
Abundant educational tools and resources
24/7 customer service
Over 100 brick-and-mortar branches across the U.S. for face-to-face support
Cons
Fidelity Go® has a 0.35% advisory fee per year for balances of $25,000 and over
Some of Fidelity’s mutual funds require reaching specific thresholds
Reports of platform outages during heavy trading days
View More
TD Ameritrade
Learn More
Minimum deposit and balance
Minimum deposit and balance requirements may vary depending on the investment vehicle selected. No minimum to open a TD Ameritrade brokerage account; minimum $25,000 investment for managed Selective Portfolios and minimum $250,000 investment for managed Personalized Portfolios

Fees
Fees may vary depending on the investment vehicle selected. Zero commission fees for stock, ETF and options trades; zero transaction fees for hundreds of mutual funds; Managed Portfolios charge annual advisory fees: 0.75% to 0.90% for the first $100,000 for Selective Portfolios and 0.60% to 0.90% for Personalized Portfolios (for both, fees vary by portfolio and investment amount)

Bonus
None

Investment vehicles
Most similar to robo-advisor: TD Ameritrade Managed Portfolios IRA: TD Ameritrade Traditional, Roth, Rollover, SEP and SIMPLE IRAs Brokerage and trading: TD Ameritrade Trading Other: Solo 401(k) and Pension or Profit Plan

Investment options
Stocks, bonds, mutual funds, ETFs, options, IPOs, futures, forex, margin and crypto trading

Educational resources
Interactive courses and webcasts

TD Ameritrade, Inc. has been acquired by Charles Schwab, and all accounts have been moved.

Pros
Excellent customer service
Intuitive trading platform
Large selection of mutual funds
Cons
Some mutual funds charge high commissions
Free research may not all be relevant to novice investors
Doesn’t offer fractional shares of stocks
View More
Vanguard
Fees/commissions
$0 

Account minimum
$0

Investment options
Stocks, bonds, ETFs, mutual funds, options, CDs

Pros
Excellent customer service
One of the largest ETF and mutual funds offerings around
Large number of no-transaction-fee mutual funds
Cons
$20 annual fee for IRAs and brokerage accounts, though investors can waive this fee by opting into paperless statements
Basic trading platform only
No robust research and data tools
View More
Pro tip:
If you haven’t started investing for retirement yet, consider opening a Roth IRA account with any of the brokerages listed above. This account provides great tax incentives as all growth within the account is tax-free, as long as you don’t withdraw it before 59 and a half years old.

Bottom line
Gifting stocks may seem a bit complicated, but with a little pre-planning, it can be a fun gift that benefits the recipient for years to come. Whether its a simple index fund, ETF or favorite individual stock, your recipient can become a proud owner of a valuable company or group of businesses. And their collective goal is simple: make your gift recipient money.

If the gift recipient is a minor, it can be a great way to start the conversation around the basics of money. If you’re gifting stocks to a friend, spouse or colleague, it can be a thoughtful gift related to their favorite business, or a simple gesture showing that you want to help them invest in their future.

Catch up on Select’s in-depth coverage of personal finance, tech and tools, wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date.

Read more
The top 5 investing apps to help newbies, experts and couples build their wealth from anywhere
Here’s how much money 35-year-olds should invest each month to become a millionaire
Editorial Note: Opinions, analyses, reviews or recommendations expressed in this article are those of the Select editorial staff’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any third party.
MailChimp
Learn More
Terms Apply
Paid Placement
MailChimp
MailChimp makes it easy to design eye-catching campaigns, automate your marketing, and turn leads into loyal customers.
Empower
Learn More
Terms Apply
Empower
Get free tools and guidance to see how your investments are doing.
Related
5 of the best short-term investments
Best IRAs of 2026
The best Roth IRA accounts to grow your money tax-free
Best investing apps to build your wealth
Best commission-free stock trading platforms
Best robo-advisors
What is an index fund?
Mutual funds: Understanding how they work
What are ETFs and should you invest in them?
Bonds
Latest
10 best 0% APR credit cards of February 2026
Jason Stauffer
Reverse mortgage vs. home equity loan or HELOC
Kelsey Neubauer
Want to save more without thinking about it? A CFP’s 6-step system
Andreina Rodriguez
logo
More from Select
About
Help
Careers
CNBC Sitemap
Advertiser Disclosure
Advertise
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
Terms of Service
Contact
CNBC.com
© 2026 SELECT | All Rights Reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.
This site is now part of Versant. By continuing, you agree to our Terms. You also acknowledge that our updated Privacy Policy applies, including your existing data. For info on your data rights, click “Your Privacy Choices” or see “Your Rights” in our Privacy Policy.

We and our partners also use tools on this site to provide the services, personalize your experience, and for analytics, marketing, and advertising. If you previously opted out of selling, sharing, or targeted advertising on this site, you will need to update your Privacy Choice.

Your Privacy Choices Continue