Skip to main content
Personal investors
My saves

Search
Support
Log in

Products & services

Why we're different

Resources & education
Open an account
beginning of main content
Home /
A mother and her baby are looking at a laptop screen.
How to gift assets
Giving assets to charities, family, and friends is now easier than ever. Complete your gift to an eligible recipient in minutes using our new digital experience!

Send a gift and make an impact today
Gifting in-kind allows you to give assets, like shares or securities, without receiving full consideration of your gift in return. You can gift directly from any Vanguard nonretirement account to any nonretirement account within or outside of Vanguard. If you're looking to transfer assets between Vanguard nonretirement accounts you own, visit our internal transfers page!


Account eligibility
Currently, you can gift from any Vanguard nonretirement account.


Gifting methods
Use shares or dollar amount, and choose cost basis options.


Processing time
Submissions take about 1-3 business days. Times for outside firms may vary.


Who can I gift to?
You can donate to an individual, like a friend or family member—such as a child with an UGMA/UTMA account—or a charitable organization. If you're sending a gift outside of Vanguard, you'll need to have the name of the firm, DTC (Depository Trust Company) number of the firm, name on the receiving account, and account number to complete your request. If the gift is going to a Vanguard client, just ask the person or charity managing the account for their Vanguard account number, found on an account statement under profile & account settings while logged in.


How long will it take to process my gift?

How will gifting impact my taxes?
My Accounts
Log in
Products & services
Compare advice services
Investment products overview
Accounts & plans overview
Rollovers
Transfers
Why we're different
Vanguard's history
Benefits
Fees & commissions
Account conveniences
Vanguard mobile app
Resources & education
Retirement
Taxes
Investing strategies
Markets & economy
Tools & calculators
See all resources & education
About Vanguard
Company information & insights
Pressroom
Career opportunities
Technical support
Vanguard sites
Institutional investors
Financial advisor
Non-U.S. investors
More Vanguard sites
Privacy & security
Online privacy notice
Security at Vanguard
Manage cookies
Forms & notices
Accessibility
Fund prospectuses and reports
Advisor Client Relationship Summary (VAI Form CRS)
Special notice to non-U.S. investors
Connect with us®
Vanguard funds not held in a brokerage account are held by The Vanguard Group, Inc., and are not protected by SIPC. Brokerage assets are held by Vanguard Brokerage Services, a division of Vanguard Marketing Corporation, member FINRA and SIPC.

For additional financial information on Vanguard Marketing Corporation, see its Statement of Financial Condition: Audited and Unaudited.

Broker-Dealer Client Relationship Summary (VMC Form CRS) and Investment Advisor Client Relationship Summary (VAI Form CRS).

© 1995–2026 The Vanguard Group, Inc. All rights reserved. Vanguard Marketing Corporation, Distributor of the Vanguard Funds. Your use of this site signifies that you accept our terms & conditions of use.