🎉 Get up to $1,000 in stock when you fund a new SoFi Active Invest account.* Learn more

SoFi
Products
Loans

Student Loan Refinancing

Medical Resident Refinancing
Parent PLUS Refinancing
Medical Professional Refinancing
Law and MBA Refinancing
SmartStart Refinancing
Private Student Loans

Undergraduate Student Loans
Graduate Student Loans
Law School Loans
MBA Loans
Health Professions Loans
Parent Student Loans
Medical and Veterinary Loans
Dental Loans
STEM Loans
Auto Loan Refinance

Personal Loans

Home Improvement Loans
Credit Card Consolidation Loans
Family Planning Loans
Travel Loans
Wedding Loans
Mortgage Loans

Home Purchase
Mortgage Refinance
Cash-Out Refinance
Jumbo Loans
FHA Loans
VA Loans
Mortgage Preapproval
Mortgage Rates
Home Equity

Home Equity Loans
HELOC
Investing

Invest

Self-Directed Investing
Robo Investing
Retirement Accounts (IRAs)
Stock Trading
IPO Investing
Fractional Shares
ETFs
Credit Cards

Credit Cards
Everyday Cash Rewards Card
Essential Card
Unlimited 2% Card
Premium Membership

SoFi Plus
Banking

Banking

Checking Account
High Yield Savings Account
International Money Transfers
Crypto

Crypto

Insurance

Insurance

Auto Insurance
Life Insurance
Homeowners Insurance
Renters Insurance
Estate Planning

Financial Insights

Financial Insights
Credit Score Monitoring
Budgeting and Spending
Property Tracking
Investment Portfolio Summary
Debt Summary
Business Solutions

SoFi at Work
Small Business Financing
Line of Credit
Equipment Financing
Startup Loans
Business Checking

Business Credit Card
Browse all products

SoFi Plus
Member Benefits
Member Benefits

As a SoFi member, you get access to exclusive benefits designed to help set you up for success with your money, community, and career.


SoFi Member Rewards

Earn points for making moves toward financial independence—every step of the way.

Referral Program

Refer your friends & family to SoFi and get paid.

Member Advisory Board

Meet our panel of SoFi Members who provide invaluable feedback across all our products and services.

SoFi Stadium

Members get exclusive SoFi Stadium perks like expedited entry, access to the SoFi Member Lounge, and more.

Member Experiences

SoFi Plus members now get one-of-a-kind entertainment access with SoFi Plus Experiences.

Financial Planning

Get personalized advice from a credentialed financial planner.

Estate Planning

Members get an exclusive discount on their trust, will or guardianship estate plan.

Resources
Resources

Get answers to your questions; plus tools, guides, calculators, & more.


Top Resources

Student Debt Guide
Mortgage Resource Center
Fixed vs. Variable Rates
Medical School Refinance Guide
Investing 101 Guide
Consolidate vs. Refi
Credit Card Resource Hub
See All Resources

Top Tools

Student Loan Refinance Calculator
Mortgage Calculator
Student Loan Payment Calculator
Personal Loan Calculator
Student Loan Payoff Calculator
Home Affordability Calculator
Life Insurance Calculator
See All Tools

Learn More

Military Benefits
On the Money
Investment Strategy
FAQs
Eligibility Criteria
Research Hub
Fraud Support
About
About Us

Learn more about our mission and values, how we started, and what we’ve accomplished since then.


Our Leadership

Meet the SoFi leadership team and board members.

How it Works

Read about how SoFi works—and how we can help you reach your financial goals.

Our Values

Learn more about SoFi’s core values.

Press

Read through the latest SoFi news coverage.

Investors

Information for investors in SOFI common stock.

Careers

Come work with us!

Inclusive Culture

Learn about our commitment to fostering a welcoming workforce.

Contact Us

Questions? Comments? Just want to talk? Get in touch with us via phone or email.

Log In


























SoFi Learn
Financial Topics
Life Stages
Share
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Reddit
How to Gift a Stock
By Laurel Tincher. July 07, 2025 · 10 minute read

This content may include information about products, features, and/or services that SoFi does not provide and is intended to be educational in nature.

How to Gift a Stock

Table of Contents

The Benefits of Gifting Stocks
8 Ways to Gift Stocks
Things to Consider When Giving a Stock Gift
Tax Implications of Gifting Stocks
How to Choose the Right Stock to Gift
Selecting Blue-Chip vs. Growth Stocks
FAQ
Gifting stock can be a simple process, as long as your intended recipient has a brokerage account, too. You’ll just need their basic personal and account information. One reason to consider transferring shares of a stock, instead of selling them and gifting the proceeds, is that you’ll typically avoid realizing the capital gains and owing related taxes.

Key Points

•   There are several ways to gift stocks, such as setting up a custodial account for kids, setting up a DRIP, virtual transfers, and physically handing over stock certificates.

•   Gifting stocks can benefit the giver as well as the receiver, as the giver can take a tax deduction while avoiding capital gains tax.

•   The annual gift tax exclusion for 2025 is $19,000 per year, per person.

•   Gifting stocks to charities can benefit both the giver and the charity as the giver doesn’t have to pay capital gains taxes and the charity is tax-exempt.

•   Gifts can also be made via investing apps and stock gift cards.

The Benefits of Gifting Stocks
Besides being a nice gift (who doesn’t like to give, or receive, a gift?), there are some potential financial benefits to gifting stocks.

There are tax benefits, for one, which allow the donor to deduct the fair market value of the stock on their tax return. You can also potentially avoid capital gains tax, as the receiver inherits a stock’s original cost basis from the donor.

There can be strategic benefits, too. If an investor is looking to rebalance their portfolio or make some reallocations, gifting stock may be an option to consider. And, again, it can allow them to do it while giving a gift, and potentially reducing their tax liabilities.

8 Ways to Gift Stocks
There are several ways that stocks can be gifted, including through custodial accounts, and even gift cards.

 Set Up a Custodial Account for Kids
 Set up a DRiP
 Gifting to a Spouse
 Virtual Transfers and Stock Certificates
 Gifting Stock to Charity
 Passing Down Wealth
 Gifting Through a Roth IRA
 Gifting to Friends Through a Brokerage Account
1. Set Up a Custodial Account for Kids
Parents can set up a custodial brokerage account for their kids and transfer stocks, mutual funds, and other assets into it. They can also buy assets directly for the account. When the child reaches a certain age they take ownership of it.

This can be a great way to get kids interested in their finances and educate them about investing or particular industries. Teaching kids about short and long term investments by giving them a stock that will grow over time is a great learning opportunity. However, keep in mind that there is a so-called “kiddie tax” imposed by the IRS if a child’s interest and dividend income is more than $2,600.

2. Set up a DRiP
Dividend Reinvestment Plans, or DRiPs, are another option for gifting stocks. These are plans that automatically reinvest dividends from stocks, which allows the stock to grow with compound interest.

3. Gifting to a Spouse
When gifting stocks to a spouse, there are generally no tax implications as long as both people are U.S. citizens. A spouse can either gift a present interest or a future interest in shares, meaning the recipient spouse gets the shares immediately or at a specified date in the future.

According to the IRS, If the recipient spouse is not a U.S. citizen, there is an annual gift tax exclusion of $190,000. Any amount above that would be taxed.

4. Virtual Transfers and Stock Certificates
Anyone can transfer shares of stock to someone else, if the receiver has a brokerage account. This type of gifting can be done with basic personal and account information. One can either transfer shares they already own, or buy them in their account and then transfer them. Some brokers also have the option to give stocks periodically.

Individuals can also buy a stock certificate and gift that to the recipient, but this is expensive and requires more effort for both the giver and receiver. To transfer a physical stock certificate, the owner needs to sign it in the presence of a guarantor, such as their bank or a stock broker.

5. Gifting Stock to Charity
Another option is to give the gift of stocks to a charity, as long as the charity is set up to receive them. This can benefit both the giver and the charity, because the giver doesn’t have to pay capital gains taxes, and as a tax-exempt entity, the charity doesn’t either. The giver may also be able to deduct the amount the stock was worth from their taxes.

For givers who don’t know which charity to give to, one option is a donor-advised fund, or DAF. While the giver can take a tax deduction on their gift in the calendar year in which they give it, the fund will distribute the gift to the charities over multiple years.

6. Passing Down Wealth
Gifting stocks to family members can be a better way to transfer wealth than selling them and paying taxes. For 2025, up to $19,000 per year, per person, can be transferred through gifting of cash, stocks, or a combination.

If a person wants to transfer stocks upon their death, they have a few options, including:

•   Make it part of their will.

•   Go through a beneficiary designation in a trust.

•   Create an inherited IRA.

•   Arrange a transfer on death designation in a brokerage account.

It’s important to look into each option and one’s individual circumstances to figure out the taxes and cost basis for this option.

7. Gifting Through a Roth IRA
Gifting stock through an IRA is not technically possible, as you can’t transfer stock from your Roth IRA to another person. But what you can do is gift the recipient funds that they can use to contribute to their own Roth IRA, with some stipulations. And there are thresholds, too, above which a gift could trigger a gift tax.

8. Gifting to Friends Through a Brokerage Account
Finally, you can gift your friends or another recipient via a brokerage account in a fairly straightforward way, assuming the recipient has a brokerage account of their own. Brokerages may have different processes for this, so you may need to get in touch with yours to see what the precise protocol is. But you’ll need the details of their brokerage account, at a bare minimum, and there could be tax implications following the transfer, too.

Get up to $1,000 in stock when you fund a new Active Invest account.*
Access stock trading, options, alternative investments, IRAs, and more. Get started in just a few minutes.


*Customer must fund their Active Invest account with at least $50 within 45 days of opening the account. Probability of customer receiving $1,000 is 0.026%. See full terms and conditions.

Things to Consider When Giving a Stock Gift
Gifting stocks is relatively straightforward, but there are some things to keep in mind. In addition to the $19,000 per year gifting limit and the capital gains tax implications of gifting, timing of gifts is important, and gifting may not always be the best choice.

For instance, when gifting to heirs, it may be better to wait and allow them to inherit stocks rather than gifting them during life. This may reduce or eliminate the capital gains they owe.

Also, there is a lifetime gift exclusion for federal estate taxes, which is $13.99 million in 2025, which can be used to shelter giving that goes over $19,000. However, this is not a great tax option, due to the ways gifts and inherited stocks are taxed.

Generally, an option to give a substantial amount of money to someone is to establish a trust fund.

Tax Implications of Gifting Stocks
There are some tax ramifications of giving stock as a gift.

Capital Gains Tax
There are a few things to be aware of with the capital gains taxes. If the stock is gifted at a lower value than it was originally purchased at, and sold at a loss, the cost basis for the recipient is based on the fair market value of the stock on the date they received it.

However, if the price of the stock increases above the price that the giver originally paid, the capital gains are based on the value of the stock when the giver bought it. In a third scenario, if the stock is sold on the date of the gift at a higher than fair market value, but at a lower value than the giver’s cost basis, no gain or loss needs to be recorded by the recipient.

•  Tax implications for giving: When gifting stocks, the giver can avoid paying capital gains tax. can sometimes be a way for the giver and the receiver to avoid paying capital gains taxes.

•  Tax implications for receiving: The recipient won’t pay taxes upon receiving the stock. When they sell it, they may be exempt from capital gains taxes if they’re in a lower tax bracket (consider, for example, a minor or retired individual). Otherwise, if they sell at a profit, they should expect to pay capital gains tax. If the annual gifting limit is exceeded, there may be taxes associated with that and the giver will need to file an estate and gift tax return.

How to Choose the Right Stock to Gift
If you choose to give a stock to someone, you might be wondering: Which stock do I actually give them?

There is no right or wrong answer, and perhaps the most important thing to do is give some thought to what the recipient may want or what they think is important. For example, you may not want to gift someone stocks from a fossil fuel company that is passionate about green or renewable energy. Or vice versa.

You may also want to do some basic research as to a stock’s recent performance, so that the recipient doesn’t think that you’re offloading a stinker that’s lost significant value in recent years.

It may be best to simply ask the recipient first; let them know your plans, and ask if they have a preference.

Selecting Blue-Chip vs. Growth Stocks
Assuming you have chosen to gift a stock, you may want to keep things relatively simple and choose a blue-chip or growth stock. These, typically, are stocks of well-known companies that the recipient should recognize.

How to Choose the Right Stock to Gift
As discussed, there may be some personal considerations to think about when choosing a blue-chip or growth stock to give. Ask some questions to get a feel for what the recipient may like, appreciate, or get jazzed about, and then see which stocks may fit the bill. Again: there may not be a right or wrong stock to give!

Understanding Dividend Stocks and Their Impact
If you decide to gift a so-called “dividend stock,” which could be a stock of a company that’s known for dishing out dividends to shareholders, you may want to be aware of the potential tax implications those dividends may have. And, accordingly, let the recipient know, if they’re unfamiliar with investing and the potential tax liabilities they could generate.

In short: Dividends are a form of income, which will generate a tax liability, and if they choose to sell the stock, capital gains taxes could come into play, too.

Recommended: What Are Capital Gains Taxes?

The Takeaway
Gifting stocks is a unique idea that may have benefits for both the giver and the receiver. As you plan for your future, you may decide to build up a portfolio of stocks that you intend to give to your children, parents, or others as you grow older.

Invest in what matters most to you with SoFi Active Invest. In a self-directed account provided by SoFi Securities, you can trade stocks, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), mutual funds, alternative funds, options, and more — all while paying $0 commission on every trade. Other fees may apply. Whether you want to trade after-hours or manage your portfolio using real-time stock insights and analyst ratings, you can invest your way in SoFi's easy-to-use mobile app.

Opening and funding an Active Invest account gives you the opportunity to get up to $1,000 in the stock of your choice.¹


FAQ
Who can I gift a stock to?
In general, you can gift a stock to anyone who has a brokerage account. It’s also possible to gift stock to charitable organizations, or children and minors through a custodial brokerage account.

How do I transfer stocks as a gift?
While the exact steps and protocols for transferring a stock as a gift may vary depending on your brokerage, in general, investors can contact their brokerage and give them the required information to initiate a transfer or transaction.

Are there limits on how much stock I can gift?
Not necessarily, but investors should know that if they gift more than the gift tax exclusion, which is $19,000 for 2025, it could trigger tax liabilities.

Do I need to pay taxes when gifting stocks?
If you gift more than the gift tax exclusion of $19,000 for 2025, gift tax liabilities could come into play. There’s also a lifetime gift tax exemption of $13.99 million for 2025.

What happens if the recipient sells the gifted stock?
If or when a recipient sells their gifted stock, they’ll likely be on the hook for capital gains taxes, as they’ll inherit the gifter’s original cost basis. There could be other tax implications as well, such as the “kiddie tax” or income taxes.

Photo credit: iStock/akinbostanci


INVESTMENTS ARE NOT FDIC INSURED • ARE NOT BANK GUARANTEED • MAY LOSE VALUE

SoFi Invest is a trade name used by SoFi Wealth LLC and SoFi Securities LLC offering investment products and services. Robo investing and advisory services are provided by SoFi Wealth LLC, an SEC-registered investment adviser. Brokerage and self-directed investing products offered through SoFi Securities LLC, Member FINRA/SIPC.

For disclosures on SoFi Invest platforms visit SoFi.com/legal. For a full listing of the fees associated with Sofi Invest please view our fee schedule.

Financial Tips & Strategies: The tips provided on this website are of a general nature and do not take into account your specific objectives, financial situation, and needs. You should always consider their appropriateness given your own circumstances.

Disclaimer: The projections or other information regarding the likelihood of various investment outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results.

Tax Information: This article provides general background information only and is not intended to serve as legal or tax advice or as a substitute for legal counsel. You should consult your own attorney and/or tax advisor if you have a question requiring legal or tax advice.

Mutual Funds (MFs): Investors should read and carefully consider the information contained in the prospectus, which contains the Mutual Fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges, expenses, and other relevant information. You may obtain a prospectus from the Fund company’s website or SoFi's customer service at: 1.855.456.7634. Mutual Funds must be bought and sold at NAV (Net Asset Value); unless otherwise noted in the prospectus, trades are only done once per day after the markets close. Investment returns are subject to risks. Shares may be worth more or less their original value when redeemed. The diversification of a mutual fund will not protect against loss. A mutual fund may not achieve its stated investment objective. Rebalancing and other activities within the fund may have tax implications.

Third Party Trademarks: Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Center for Financial Planning, Inc. owns and licenses the certification marks CFP®, CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER®


¹Probability of Member receiving $1,000 is a probability of 0.026%; If you don’t make a selection in 45 days, you’ll no longer qualify for the promo. Customer must fund their account with a minimum of $50.00 to qualify. Probability percentage is subject to decrease. See full terms and conditions.
SOIN-Q225-157

Share
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Reddit
You might also enjoy

Investing in Chinese Stocks

How Do Interest Rates Affect the US Stock Market?

The Risks of Playing the Stock Market
Browse all financial topics
Student Loans

Home Ownership

Investing

Debt Payoff

Budgeting & Goals

Credit

Life & Career

PRODUCTS
SoFi Plus
Student Loan Refinancing
Medical/Dental Resident Refinancing
Parent PLUS Refinancing
Medical Professional Refinancing
Law and MBA Refinancing
SmartStart Refinancing
Private Student Loans
Undergraduate Student Loans
Graduate Student Loans
Law School Loans
MBA Loans
Health Professions Loans
Parent Student Loans
Personal Loans
Credit Card Consolidation Loans
Home Improvement Loans
Family Planning Loans
Travel Loans
Wedding Loans
Mortgage Loans
Mortgage Refinance
Auto Loan Refinance
Online Investing
Self-Directed Brokerage Account
Robo Investing
IRA Account
Stock Trading
Options Trading
SoFi Protect
Renters Insurance
Homeowners Insurance
Auto Insurance
Life Insurance
Estate Planning
SoFi Credit Card
SoFi Checking and Savings
Online Checking Account
Online Savings Account
Debit Card
Checking Account Bonus
Crypto
Financial Insights
SoFi at Work
Small Business Financing
Business Checking
Business Credit Card
COMPANY
About Us
Our Leadership
How it Works
Our Values
Press
Investors
Careers
Inclusive Culture
Contact Us
On the Money
FAQs
LEGAL
Privacy & Security
Terms of Use
Disclaimers
Licenses
NMLS Access
Eligibility Criteria
ADA Accessibility
Business Continuity
 Your privacy options
QUESTIONS
FAQs
Contact Us
ALSO OF INTEREST
8 Ways to Make Your Money Work for You
How Do You Cash Out Stocks?
8 Ways to Stay Motivated to Save Money
8 Ways to Learn About Finance Without a...
8 Ways to Deposit Money into Someone's Bank Account
SoFi Daily Intel, insights, and inspo for this financial moment, delivered straight to your inbox.

 
 
 
 
SoFi QR code, Download now, scan this with your phone’s camera
2750 East Cottonwood Parkway #300
Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121





Terms and conditions apply. SOFI RESERVES THE RIGHT TO MODIFY OR DISCONTINUE PRODUCTS AND BENEFITS AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE. To qualify, a borrower must be a U.S. citizen or other eligible status, be residing in the U.S., and meet SoFi's underwriting requirements. Not all borrowers receive the lowest rate. Lowest rates reserved for the most creditworthy borrowers. If approved, your actual rate will be within the range of rates at the time of application and will depend on a variety of factors, including term of loan, evaluation of your creditworthiness, income, and other factors. If SoFi is unable to offer you a loan but matches you for a loan with a participating bank, then your rate may be outside the range of rates listed above. Rates and Terms are subject to change at any time without notice. SoFi Personal Loans can be used for any lawful personal, family, or household purposes and may not be used for post-secondary education expenses. Minimum loan amount is $5,000. The average of SoFi Personal Loans funded in 2023 was around $33K. Information current as of 2/26/24. SoFi Personal Loans originated by SoFi Bank, N.A. Member FDIC. NMLS #696891 (www.nmlsconsumeraccess.org). See SoFi.com/legal for state-specific license details. See SoFi.com/eligibility for details and state restrictions.

✝ To check the rates and terms you may qualify for, SoFi conducts a soft credit pull that will not affect your credit score. However, if you choose a product and continue your application, we will request your full credit report from one or more consumer reporting agencies, which is considered a hard credit pull and may affect your credit.

©2026 Social Finance, LLC All rights reserved.
TLS 1.2 EncryptedEqual Housing Lender
We use pixels and other tracking technologies to collect your information and actions to enhance site navigation, personalize content, analyze site usage, and assist in marketing efforts. We share this information with social media, advertising, and analytics partners. If you do not make a selection, you agree to our use of these technologies.Privacy Policy
Decline all optional
Accept all
