Give A Share logo
0
Shop
About
Blog
FAQs
Order Status
Login
framed build a bear stock with baby - says worlds youngest shareholder
Previous
Next
 

Stock Gifts Made Simple
Unique, fun, educational, and maybe even profitable, too!

We offer two unique ways to give the gift of stock:

Top 10 Stocks
walt disney logo
Disney Stock Gifts
netflix logo
Netflix Stock Gifts
Starbucks logo
Starbucks Stock Gifts
nike logo
Nike Stock Gifts
nvidia logo
Nvidia Stock Gifts
apple logo
Apple Stock Gifts
coca cola logo
Coca-Cola Stock Gifts
amazon logo
Amazon Stock Gifts
tesla logo
Tesla Stock Gifts
atlanta braves logo
Atlanta Braves Stock Gifts
2026 IPO Watchlist
Be the first to know when shares and stock certificates become available at GiveAshare.

 

SpaceX logo
SpaceX Stock
openai logo
OpenAI Stock
anthropic logo
Anthropic Stock
canvalogo
Canva Stock
stripe logo
Stripe Stock
databricks logo
Databricks Stock
kraken logo
Kraken Stock
dataiku logo
Dataiku Stock
bolt logo
Bolt Stock
mindbody logo
Mindbody Stock
Fast & Easy
1
STEP
Pick with or without a real share
2
STEP
Choose a Stock
3
STEP
Select Options
(frame, giftwrap, etc.)
4
STEP
Provide Shareholder Info
(name, address, adult if minor)
Stock Gift Info
 

replica stock certificate icon
Replica Stock Certificates - Perfect if you already own shares in a brokerage account or fund.

real stock certificate icon
Stock certificates - the next dinosaurs?

broker stock icon
See why people love us! Check out our stellar Google Reviews & Product Reviews

certificate stock icon
Why do brokers charge $500 for a stock certificate?

 

How it Works
 
If you choose One Share with Stock Certificate, your stock gift comes in two parts:

1st Part
Personalized Replica Stock Certificate
Personalized Replica Stock Certificate
Ships from our Arizona facility within two business days
Custom-framed per your order: Keepsake Folder or Premium Frame with plaque
Delivered to the shipping address you provide
2nd Part
DRS Statement and Registered Certificate of Ford
Shareholder Ownership Document
Arrives in 3–7 weeks, once legal registration is complete
Sent directly to the Shareholder’s address
Includes one of the following:
A registered stock certificate (if available and selected), or
A Direct Registration System (DRS) account statement
More info
If you choose Replica Stock Certificates, you’ll receive just the 1st Part — the personalized replica stock certificate that can reference ownership held in a brokerage or other investment account.

Teach Kids about Stocks
 
a boy with nike certificate
Gift Them a Company They Love
Pick a company your kid identifies with to grab their attention. Brand enthusiasm is more important than investment value at this stage.

little girl with dividend check
Let Them Experience Stock Ownership
Shareholders are entitled to annual reports, declared dividends, voting and any perks. Each mailing is a learning opportunity.

Girl with a shareholder book
Add Our
I'm A Shareholder Book
It teaches kids the basics about stocks and what it means to be a shareholder.

Unique Gifts for Adults, Too!
 
Harley Davidson Logo
Anheuser-Busch Logo
Draftkings Logo





Gold Bars
Callaway Golf Logo
Coinbase Logo
Frequently Asked Questions
 

IS THIS REAL STOCK?

HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE?

CAN NON-U.S. CITIZENS BUY?

HOW DOES THE PROCESS WORK?

I ALREADY OWN STOCK AT A BROKER, CAN I GET A REPLICA STOCK CERTIFICATE FROM YOU?
More FAQs

Blog
Latest Articles
Does Bookings 25 for 1 Split Make It Worthy?
Does Bookings 25 for 1 Split Make It Worthy?
SpaceX IPO: What Investors Need to Know—and How to Commemorate One of the Most Anticipated IPOs Ever
SpaceX IPO: What Investors Need to Know—and How to Commemorate One of the Most Anticipated IPOs Ever
Upcoming IPOs to Watch in 2026: The Most Anticipated Companies Going Public
Upcoming IPOs to Watch in 2026: The Most Anticipated Companies Going Public
More Blog Posts
STOCK CERTIFICATES
(only at GiveAshare)
Proudly display stock ownership
No longer provided by stock brokers
Collectible value
Reviews
 
gamestop stock
Neil M.
Craigavon UK

     
"Provide an excellent service and dealt with any queries I had quickly and efficiently. Would highly recommend."

harley stock
Holly R.
Westminster, MD

     
"Its an awesome gift everything went very smoothly. The replica certificate and presentation were really nice."

virgin galactic stock
Suzanne L.
El Paso, TX

     
"My niece LOVED the certificate! It was beautifully framed and very sleek looking! This not the first time I have used GiveAShare, and I have always been pleased by the results. Thank you!"

nintendo stock
Elaine L.
Aiken, SC

     
"I have been purchasing Give A Share for the past 10 years. It is a pleasure to deal with your company, its precise, efficient and extremely timely. I would and have recommended this company to friends and acquaintances over the years. Thank you for a wonderful experience. Elaine"

disney stock
Virginia W.
Tybee Island, GA

     
"I have ordered from Give A Share by Leading Edge Gifts many times and have always been 100% pleased with the products and the service."

starbucks stock
Michael S.
Miami, FL

     
"Excellent service! This was purchased as a gift for the person that has everything! The certificate came in a nice frame and looks great on the wall! Very happy with the product and the process!"

gamestop stock
Neil M.
Craigavon UK

     
"Provide an excellent service and dealt with any queries I had quickly and efficiently. Would highly recommend."

harley stock
Holly R.
Westminster, MD

     
"Its an awesome gift everything went very smoothly. The replica certificate and presentation were really nice."

virgin galactic stock
Suzanne L.
El Paso, TX

     
"My niece LOVED the certificate! It was beautifully framed and very sleek looking! This not the first time I have used GiveAShare, and I have always been pleased by the results. Thank you!"

nintendo stock
Elaine L.
Aiken, SC

     
"I have been purchasing Give A Share for the past 10 years. It is a pleasure to deal with your company, its precise, efficient and extremely timely. I would and have recommended this company to friends and acquaintances over the years. Thank you for a wonderful experience. Elaine"

disney stock
Virginia W.
Tybee Island, GA

     
"I have ordered from Give A Share by Leading Edge Gifts many times and have always been 100% pleased with the products and the service."

starbucks stock
Michael S.
Miami, FL

     
"Excellent service! This was purchased as a gift for the person that has everything! The certificate came in a nice frame and looks great on the wall! Very happy with the product and the process!"

As Seen On
 
cbs news logo
cnbc logo
cnn money logo
forbes logo
today logo
usa today logo
cbs news logo
cnbc logo
cnn money logo
forbes logo
today logo
usa today logo
cbs news logo
cnbc logo
cnn money logo
forbes logo
today logo
usa today logo
Poco theme
Enter email for infrequent newsletter & discounts
Address
2537 E Via Del Arboles
Gilbert AZ 85298
google review badge showing 5 stars

Phone
480.621.6657
Company
About
Contact
Partner With Us
Media
Sitemap
Resources
Blog
Detailed Stock Info
Transfer Agent Info
About Stock Certificates
Order Status
Login
Legal
Accessibility
Privacy
Terms
2002-2026 © GiveAshare.com / Leading Edge Gifts LLC.

GiveAshare is not affiliated with the companies shown, and all names and logos belong to their respective owners. We provide an innovative gift that allows customers to easily and affordably buy a real share of stock as a gift. While the stock is real, we do not provide investment advice or promote our product as an investment. GiveAshare is not a registered broker-dealer and complies with applicable SEC rules. For investment needs, please consult a licensed broker or financial advisor. All content on this website—including text, graphics, images, and customized stock certificate designs—is the property of GiveAshare and is protected by U.S. and international copyright laws.

18.4k
Shares
facebook sharing button Sharetwitter sharing button Tweetpinterest sharing button Pinemail sharing button Emailsharethis sharing button Sharereddit sharing button Sharearrow_left sharing button
This site uses cookies.
Some of these cookies are essential, while others help us to improve your experience by providing insights into how the site is being used.

More information
Accept all
Configure