Skip to content
The Investor Post
Earning
Investing
Banking
Personal Finance
Search
Investing
Advertiser Disclosure
UNest vs. Acorns: Side-By-Side Comparison (2023)
UNest vs. Acorns, which investing app makes the most sense for your kids? Today, we take a detailed look at the pros and cons of both and help you decide which app is right for your little one.
Joshua Mayo
Joshua Mayo
December 20, 2023
unvest vs acorns comparison
You can trust The Investor Post
Our strict editorial guidelines ensures that our reader’s best interest is always prioritized. Therefore, know that any references to products or services from our partners in this post, although they may compensate us, have not influenced our evaluations. Read about how we make money.
Key Points
Both UNest and Acorns allow you to open custodial investment accounts for your kids.
Acorns family plan is slightly cheaper than UNest’s, coming in at $5 per month compared to UNest’s $6 per month.
Acorns has a slight edge over UNest on overall investment management and portfolio features, but both are still great options.
Open an Acorns account and start investing with as little as $1 today.
Open a UNest account today and invest in your children’s futures.
Investing apps such as UNest and Acorns have taken over the market and changed the investment landscape forever. They’ve made it possible for anyone to start investing with little to no skills and even with little money.

Today, we’re going to compare UNest vs. Acorns and see which app makes the most sense for your situation. Let’s get started.

UNest vs. Acorns summary
About UNest
UNest is an investing app that lets you open custodial accounts for your kids, specifically UTMA accounts. UNest was founded in 2018 and has since seen steady growth. UNest only focuses on custodial accounts for minors and does not provide other services,

About Acorns
Acorns was one of the first micro-investing apps that made it possible for anyone to invest with tiny amounts of money. Acorns was founded in 2012 and has since grown substantially. They now offer investment services for just about every financial situation.

» See our full Acorns review here

UNest vs. Acorns price
Prices and fees can be one of the deciding factors when choosing an investment app, so let’s take a close look at how both apps compare.

UNest Plans	Acorns Plans
Regular — $3/mo	Lite — $1/mo
Family — $6/mo	Personal — $3/mo
Family — $5/mo
UNest prices and fees
UNest has two plans you can choose from—Regular and Family.

The Regular plan is $3 per month, while the Family plan is $6 per month. The only difference between these two plans is that you can add up to five children with the Family plan.

It’s important to note that UNest does have a $25 per month monthly contribution minimum. This means you have to contribute at least $25 per month

Acorns prices and fees
Acorns has three plans—Lite, Personal, and Family.

The Lite plan is $1 per month, the Personal plan is $3 per month, and the Family plan is $5 per month.

It’s important to mention that the Family plan is the only plan that allows you to use Acorns Early, which is an investment account for kids.

Winner: The winner for price and fees goes to Acorns. For $5 per month, you get access to Acorns Early, an investment account for kids that you can open in under 3 minutes. Acorns Early lets you add multiple kids at no additional cost, whereas the UNest Family plan is $6 per month and has a limit of five children.

UNest vs. Acorns investment options
UNest Investment Portfolios	Acorns Investment Portfolios
Conservative — Invests in fixed income and bond ETFs	Conservative — Invests in a mix of short-term bonds.
Conservative, Moderate, Aggressive (age-based) — Mix of fixed income and equity investments which shift the investment mix from more aggressive to more conservative investments as the child gets older.	Moderately Conservative — Invests in a mix of stocks and bonds.
Aggressive — Invests 100% in stocks via Vanguard equity index ETFs.	Moderate — Invests in a mix of stocks and bonds.
Moderately Aggressive — Invests in a mix of stocks and bonds.
Aggressive — Invests in a mix of stocks.
Both UNest and Acorns have similar investment options. In fact, with both apps, your only investment options are pre-built portfolios based on your risk tolerance ranging from conservative to aggressive.

Neither app allows you to built custom portfolios with specific stocks. Instead, your portfolio consists of a mix of ETFs or exchange-traded funds.

If you are wanting more control over your children’s exact investments, we recommend using M1 Finance or Stash. Both apps give you more control over the specific stocks, ETFs, and other investments such as bonds that go into your child’s investment portfolio.

Winner: Acorns comes out as the winner, but only by a slim margin. Both apps have almost identical investment options. The difference is that Acorns has a more intuitive approach to selecting your investments. Acorns portfolios feel more custom, even though they are technically pre-built.

UNest vs. Acorns pros
UNest pros
Open an account in under 5 minutes.
Pre-built portfolios make investing easy for anyone.
Set up automatic contributions to easily invest with the Auto Deposit feature.
Acorns pros
Open an account in under 3 minutes.
Simplifies investing with pre-built portfolios.
Automatically invest your spare change with Round Ups.
Earn more money from 350+ top brands that invest in you with Acorns Earn.
Open an FDIC insured Acorns Spend banking account and take advantage of features such as Smart Deposit.
Add multiple kids per family at no added cost per child
UNest vs. Acorns cons
UNest cons
A minimum of five children per account compared to Acorns unlimited
$25 per month contribution minimum
Can’t customize investment portfolio
Acorns cons
Can’t customize investment portfolio
Which one is right for you?
Acorns comes out as the winner in our UNest vs. Acorns comparison. Although both apps have similar features regarding their custodial investment offerings, Acorns has a slight edge on pricing and useful portfolio management features.

Overall, Acorns is the better choice for your children’s custodial investment accounts, and it’s what we would recommend to you. However, you can’t necessarily go wrong with either, especially if you are investing in your kid’s futures.

About the author

Joshua Mayo is the founder of The Investor Post, runs a self-branded YouTube channel, and is an avid investor and entrepreneur.
You may also like...
ways to invest $100
21 Best Ways to Invest $100 in 2022
can investing make you rich
Can Investing Make You Rich?
stock market alternatives
13 Alternatives to Investing in the Stock Market

5 Things To Stop Buying To Save More Money
how to buy stocks for your kids
How to Buy Stocks for Your Kids in 2022

Watch finance videos on YouTube
Watch finance videos on YouTube with exclusive content produced by Joshua Mayo, our founder.
Watch Now

You might like
swagbucks review
Swagbucks Review 2023: Brutally Honest Review
Read article
Ways To Increase Your Income
101 Ways To Increase Your Income (In 2022)
Read article
axos bank financial review
Axos Bank Review 2022
Read article

WATCH ON YOUTUBE
Youtube
COMPANY
About Us
Advertise With Us
Become an Author
HELP
Contact
Latest Articles
DISCLAIMER
The Investor Post is an independent, advertising-supported publisher. We are compensated in exchange for featured placement of sponsored products and services, or your clicking on links posted on this website. This compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear.
© 2023 The Investor Post. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising Disclaimer
Do Not Sell My Info

About Us
Advertise With Us
Advertising Disclaimer
Become an Author
Contact
Do Not Sell My Info
Editorial Guidelines
Home
Recent Articles
Terms of Use
The Investor Post Privacy Policy
About Us
Advertise With Us
Advertising Disclaimer
Become an Author
Contact
Do Not Sell My Info
Editorial Guidelines
Home
Recent Articles
Terms of Use
The Investor Post Privacy Policy
