Life without limits
 UNOS
Search
Search …
Home » Give » Gifts of stocks and bonds

Gifts of stocks & bonds
Donating appreciated securities, including stocks or bonds, is an easy and tax-effective way for you to make a gift to UNOS.

Benefits of gifts of stocks and bonds
Avoid paying capital gains tax on the sale of appreciated stock
Receive a charitable income tax deduction
Further our mission today
How to make a gift of stocks and bonds by electronic transfer – Please contact us for instructions on how you can transfer stock or bonds from your brokerage or investment account to UNOS.

By certified mail – If you hold securities in certificate form, you will need to mail two envelopes separately to complete your gift. In the first envelope, place the unsigned stock certificate(s). In the other envelope, include a signed stock power for each certificate. You may obtain this power from your broker or bank. Please remember to use certified mail.

More on gifts of stocks and bonds – There are special rules for valuing a gift of stock. The value of a charitable gift of stock is determined by taking the mean between the high and low stock price on the date of the gift. Mutual fund shares are valued using the closing price for the fund on the date of the gift.

UNOS Philanthropy
United Network for Organ Sharing
700 N 4th St
Richmond, VA 23219
Give now
FacebookLinkedInLinkedInLinkedInLinkedIn
United Network for Organ Sharing
UNOS is a nonprofit on a mission to save and transform lives through research, innovation and collaboration. Learn more.

Contact us
Get involved
Events
Careers
Advocacy
Invest in research
Honoring donors
National Donor Memorial
Give in tribute
Be an organ donor
Latest news
UNOS applauds inclusion of organ donation and transplantation reforms in FY26 Federal Funding Package
UNOS responds to CMS proposed rule; celebrates progress for patients
UNOS names 2025 Lisa Schaffner Community Advocate Award recipient
All news

© 2026 United Network for Organ Sharing, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization | Guidestar | Sitemap | Legal

Share This
