Acorns acquires EarlyBird: Read more here!


4.8

| 250K+ Families

Invest in their future, today.
Launch your little one's first investment account, save precious memories, and invite family and friends to contribute to their future – all in one simple app.


Featured in
Yahoo!
Investing built for families
Set your child up for success with expertly-crafted portfolios that let you start investing in minutes with as little as $5/mo.

Learn more


September 2024

October 2024


Tell their life story
Add photos, videos, and messages to your child’s digital time capsule in seconds.

Celebrate with loved ones
Invite family and friends to follow along and celebrate your child's journey.

Watch video

From: Grandma

“Love you sooooo much!”

Flexible family investing
EarlyBird gives your family access to a tax-advantaged custodial investment account called an UGMA account.


Fund any dream

Funds in an UGMA account can  be used by your child for any purpose including education, a downpayment on a home, starting a business or traveling the world.


Parent controlled

The account is managed by a custodian (typically a parent) until the child is 18 or 21 depending on the state.


Tax smart investing

Minimize taxes on your child's investments: earnings may be partially tax-free and additional  gains can be taxed at your child's lower rate rate.

SIPC
Protected up to $500k

Build a legacy of love

EarlyBird Memory Highlight
To: Mary, 5yr old
$15 invested

I’m so proud of you! 💪
Added by mom

Well I just got called in because you punched a boy who said lightsabers were 'only for boys.' While we'll talk about using our words instead of fists, I have to tell your future self how proud I am that at just 6 years old, you're already standing up against anyone who tries to limit what girls can do.


6 Members Contributed $152

250,000+ Families Trust EarlyBird
Don’t just listen to us, hear directly why families and leading investors (also parents!) love EarlyBird so much….

Cristina Georgoulakis
Cristina Georgoulakis
VC Partner

,

Mom of 2


Alexis Ohanian
Alexis Ohanian
Founder of Reddit

,

Dad of 2


Jeremy Hudson
Jeremy Hudson
VP, Heathcare

,

Dad of 1







FAQ
Blog
Legal
Careers
Support
support@getearlybird.io
‍This website is operated by EarlyBird Central Inc., an SEC-registered Investment Advisor.  Brokerage services are provided to clients of EarlyBird Central Inc. by Apex Clearing Corporation, an SEC-registered broker-dealer and member FINRA.  Apex Clearing Corporation is a member of SIPC. SIPC protects against the loss of cash and securities held by a customer at a financially-troubled SIPC-member brokerage firm. The limit for SIPC protection is $500,000. For details, please see www.sipc.org.

‍

‍Important Disclosures: Investing involves risk, including loss of principal. Read more

