Skip to main content
Fidelity.com Home
Customer Service
Fidelity Assistant
Profile
Open an account
Log in
Accounts & Trade
Retirement
Planning & Advice
News & Research
Products
How can we help?

Home» Customer Service »
Print Share Default text sizeA Larger text sizeA Largest text sizeA
How to Gift Shares
Whether you're the recipient or the giver of a gift of stocks, mutual funds, or other securities, you'll want to ensure this transaction goes smoothly. We can help you receive—or give—shares and make sure they end up in the right place.

How do I handle gifts into and out of a Fidelity account?
For gifts into your account, how the giver sends your gift determines how it's handled. For example, if a relative wants to transfer securities from an outside brokerage account into your Fidelity account, he or she should contact the outside firm. If you'd like to gift shares or securities from your Fidelity account to another Fidelity account, or if you want to send a gift outside of Fidelity, there are a few ways to make this happen.

What do I need to know?
Receiving shares: If a sender wants to give you shares (stocks, mutual funds, or other securities) from an outside firm, he or she needs to contact that firm to verify delivery instructions. In addition to following the firm's specific instructions, the sender may need to provide the firm with these details:

Your name, Social Security number (SSN), and your Fidelity account number
Your account registration information, including the type of account you have (e.g., nonretirement) and its ownership (e.g., individual or joint)
Fidelity's Depository Trust Company (DTC) number, which is 0226
Our name and address:

Fidelity Investments
Attn: TOA Receives
PO Box 770001
Cincinnati, OH 45277-0036

Note:

If you received physical stock certificates as a gift, please see Send in Stock Certificates for details.
If you received a check as a gift, you can use mobile check deposit or deposit the check by mail.
Sending shares: Your request to gift shares from your account must be in writing. You'll need to complete one of the following forms depending on where you're sending your gift.

For shares gifted from one Fidelity account to another, use the Transfer Between Existing Fidelity Accounts form (PDF)

For shares gifted to a brokerage account outside Fidelity, use the Transfer Shares as a Gift – Nonretirement form (PDF)

If you're gifting shares directly to a person, use the Transfer Shares as a Gift – Nonretirement form (PDF) with the following information included in the Additional Details box in section 2:

The full name and address of the recipient
The Social Security number (SSN) or tax identification number (TIN) of the recipient
If you're gifting shares to a minor (someone under the age of 18), then the minor's date of birth and the name of their legal guardian or custodian is required
What to expect
The time frames for processing gifts into or out of your account vary, based on the specific security and how it is sent or delivered.
Gifts between two Fidelity accounts take 1–4 business days to process.
After the transaction is processed, you will receive an email notification within 1–2 business days or a mailed confirmation within 3–5 business days (based on your delivery preferences).
Questions?
 800-343-3548

 Chat with a representative

733273.2.0
Footer
Mutual Funds
ETFs
Fixed Income
Bonds
CDs
Options
Crypto
Fidelity Trader+
Investor Centers
Stocks
Online Trading
Direct Indexing
Sustainable Investing
Annuities
Life Insurance
Long-Term Care Planning
529 Plans
Health Savings Account
IRAs
Retirement Planning
Small Business Retirement Plans
Charitable Giving
Marketplace Solutions
FINRA's BrokerCheck, (Opens in a new window)
Why Fidelity
Stay Connected

Locate an Investor Center by ZIP Code
 
 Instagram, (Opens in a new window) LinkedIn, (Opens in a new window) YouTube, (Opens in a new window) Reddit, (Opens in a new window) X (Twitter), (Opens in a new window) Facebook, (Opens in a new window) TikTok, (Opens in a new window) Discord, (Opens in a new window) Fidelity Apps Refer a Friend
Fidelity.com Home
Careers News Releases About Fidelity International
Copyright 1998-2026 FMR LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use Privacy Security Site Map Accessibility Contact Us, (Opens in a new window) Share Your Screen Disclosures, (Opens in a new window) Manage My Targeting/Advertising Cookies
This is for persons in the US only.
Give Feedback