Please note: This website includes an accessibility system. Press Control-F11 to adjust the website to people with visual disabilities who are using a screen reader; Press Control-F10 to open an accessibility menu.
Press enter for Accessibility for blind peoplewho use screen readers
Press enter for Keyboard Navigation
Press enter for Accessibility menu
Acorns Logo
Early Bird (A)  Logo
EXCLUSIVE EARLYBIRD OFFER
1 year of Acorns for you, 1% match for your kids
EarlyBird is now a part of the Acorns family! To celebrate, we’re giving EarlyBird customers an exclusive offer: 1 FREE year of Acorns Gold.  

Plus, your subscription includes a 1% match when you start investing for your kids’ futures with Acorns Early Invest!

Just sign up for Acorns with the same email you use to log into EarlyBird.
Claim 1 year FREE
Image of testimonials about the Acorns brand
Image of testimonials about the Acorns brand
Image of testimonials about the Acorns brand
Image of testimonials about the Acorns brand
How to claim your exclusive offer:
1
Tap “Claim 1 year FREE” above.
2
Make sure to sign up with the same email you use to log into your EarlyBird account.
3
Enjoy 1 FREE year of Acorns Gold and a 1% match for your kids!
Bar graph displaying growth over time
To be eligible for this offer, you must (1) enroll for a new Acorns account from the dedicated promotion page at https://www.acorns.com/earlybird-a, (2) successfully enroll for a new Acorns account using the same email address you use to log into your EarlyBird account, and (3) have an Acorns account in good standing on the applicable fee date. See full terms and conditions of the offer here.
Financial wellness for your family
Why Acorns - Why Acorns - Why Acorns - Why Acorns - Why Acorns - Why Acorns - Why Acorns - Why Acorns - Why Acorns - Why Acorns -
Saving, investing, and learning tools for every stage of your family's growth
Acorns Invest
Acorns Invest
Invest for your money goals with an expert-built, diversified portfolio. You can even get started with just your spare change through Round-Ups®, our most popular feature.
Acorns Banking
Acorns Banking
A Checking account that saves and invests for you. Plus, grow your money with 3.35% APY on Emergency Savings.
Acorns Later
Acorns Later
Get a 3% IRA match during your first year when you invest for retirement with Acorns Gold. Plus, tap into potential tax advantages as you invest.
Acorns Early Invest
Acorns Early Invest
Acorns Early Invest is a UGMA/UTMA account you can use to invest for the kids in your life. Even better, it comes with a 1% match on new contributions!
Acorns Early Card
Acorns Early Card
Grow your kids’ money skills with Acorns Early, a smart money app and debit card made just for them! Track chores, pay allowance automatically, and get real-time notifications when your kids spend. 
Peace of mind 
Peace of mind
Protect your family with a complimentary Will and $10,000 life insurance policy for eligible customers. 
Show your potential
What investing $5/day from birth to 18 could do for your kids
At a hypothetical 8% annual return, investing just $5/day in your kids from birth could mean over $73,000 by the time they turn 18. Try our calculator below to see how much the power of time and compounding can help your family’s money grow.
Initial deposit
0
$
Contributions
5
$

Annual

Monthly

Weekly

Daily
Years to grow
18
 years
Image of Acorn
Average annual return
8
%
Calculate my estimate
Potential Future Balance:
$71,038
Investment
Return
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
$0
$20,000
$40,000
$60,000
$80,000
Arrow pointing up
Close button
Illustration of the power of compounding based on initial deposit, contribution schedule, time horizon, and rate of return specified. Changes in those variables can affect the outcome. Reset the calculator using different figures to show different scenarios. Does not include Acorns’ monthly subscription fees (min $3/mo), which would reduce account returns over time, or other deposits or withdrawals. Results do not predict or represent the performance of any Acorns portfolio and do not take into consideration economic or market factors which can impact performance. Investment results will vary. No guarantee investment return will achieve 8% or any annual returns.

What can squirrels teach us about money?
Acorns was designed to help us humans follow in the (very tiny) footsteps of nature’s greatest investor — the squirrel! Here are some financial principles we’ve learned from our furry friends.
Tiny can turn mighty with time
When a squirrel looks at an acorn, they don’t see a small nut. They see a mighty oak in the making! All it takes is time.

Acorns is built for long-term investing, because no matter how much (or how little) you have, the power of time can give your money a chance to grow.

Tiny can turn mighty with time
Don’t put all your nuts in one place 
Don’t put all your nuts in one place
Squirrels bury them all over! In investing, that’s called “diversification.” It means your money is spread across a mix of asset types — and it can help reduce risk, too.

Acorns makes it easy to mix things up by recommending diversified portfolios built by experts that match your money goals.

Acorns can turn into more acorns
Sometimes when a squirrel buries an acorn, it grows into an oak tree — and then that oak tree makes more acorns!

That’s basically how “compounding” works — and why Acorns automatically reinvests your dividends and your capital gains. We know money can’t grow on trees, but it can grow on itself!

Acorns can turn into more acorns
Go slooow
Go slooow
One squirrel can collect over 10,000 acorns each year. That kind of stockpile doesn’t happen all at once. Squirrels slowly build up their acorn fortune, one cheekful at a time.

Acorns helps you invest at your own pace, too. Automatically add as little as $5 to your account every day, week, or month and you can give your money a chance to grow without busting your budget.

Frequently asked
How does Acorns work?

Right arrow





































What do I need to get started?

Right arrow






Where is my money invested?

Right arrow








Acorns
Grow
your oak!
Sign up today
Phone image
Your total Potential hypothetical calculation is for illustrative purposes only and assumes an initial $15,000 investment and an 8% fixed annual rate of return with $5 daily contributions over a 45-year period.
© 2025 Acorns

Welcome to the Acorns site, operated by Acorns Advisers, LLC (‘Acorns’). Sign up bonus is exclusively for new customers who have not previously opened an Investment Account. Account approval is contingent on verification and approval pursuant to regulatory requirements. Acorns is only offered to US-residents who are 18 years of age or older. Acorns reserves the right to restrict or revoke this promotional offer at any time and without notice.

Important Risk Disclosures

Investing involves risk including the loss of principal. Please consider your objectives, risk tolerance, and Acorns' fees before investing. 

Acorns is only available to US citizens or other lawful residents who are currently located in the United States. You must be 18 or older to sign up for an Acorns account.

Acorns Subscription Fees are assessed based on the tier of services in which you are enrolled. Acorns does not charge transactional fees, commissions or fees based on assets for accounts under $1 million. 

Diversification and asset allocation do not guarantee a profit, nor do they eliminate the risk of loss of principle. Compounding is the process in which an asset's earnings are reinvested to generate additional earnings over time. It does not ensure positive performance nor does it protect against loss. Acorns clients may not experience compound returns and investment results will vary based on market volatility and fluctuating prices. 

Round-Ups® are transferred from your linked funding source to your Acorns Invest account, where the funds are invested into a portfolio of selected ETFs. If you do not maintain an adequate amount of funds in your funding source sufficient to cover your Round-Ups® investment, you could incur overdraft fees with your financial institution. Round-Up investments from an external account, will be processed when your Pending Round-Ups reach or exceed $5.

Acorns Invest is an individual investment account. Acorns Later is an Individual Retirement Account (either Traditional, ROTH or SEP IRA) selected for clients based on their answers to a suitability questionnaire. Invest and Later recommend a portfolio of ETFs (exchange traded funds) to clients, please note that a properly suggested portfolio recommendation is dependent upon current and accurate financial and risk profiles.

Acorns Early Invest is a custodial UGMA/UTMA account. Assets in a custodial account are the property of the minor. Each Early Invest account identifies a beneficiary who will have complete control over the Custodial Assets when he or she reaches the default age of transfer determined by the beneficiary’s state of residence or on reaching the age of transfer as elected by you, although such elected age must be at least eighteen (18) years old. 

Customers in the Gold Subscription Plan are automatically eligible for a 1% "Early Invest Match" promotion on deposits by the Customer of up to $7,000 a year per Early Invest Account. All funds must be held in the applicable Acorns Early Invest Account for at least four years of the Early Invest Match deposit date or until the beneficiary reaches the applicable Age of Transfer, whichever is earlier. The Early Invest Match will be subject to recapture by Acorns if funds are withdrawn from the Early Invest Account during the four year period, up to the amount for which a 1% Early Invest Match was received. The Early Invest Match will also be subject to recapture if a customer downgrades to a Subscription Plan with a lower monthly fee within this period. 

Effective March 26, 2025, customers who open an Acorns Gold or Acorns Silver subscription plan or upgrades to an Acorns Gold or Silver subscription plan can opt into the Acorns Later Match feature and receive either a 3% or 1% IRA match, respectively, on new contributions made to an Acorns Later account during the first year subscribed to these subscription plans. New customers in these subscription plans are automatically eligible for the Later Match feature at the applicable 3% and 1% match rate on all contributions made during the first subscription year. All Later funds for customers must be held in an Acorns Later account for at least four years to keep the earned IRA match and all or a portion of IRA Match may be subject to recapture by Acorns if customer downgrades to a Subscription Plan with a lower monthly fee. See full terms and conditions. Terms and conditions applicable to those who opened an Acorns Gold or Acorns Silver subscription plan before March 26, 2025 and opted into Later Match are unchanged.

For informational purposes only. This is solely intended to provide notification of an available product or service. This is not a recommendation to buy, sell, hold, or roll over any asset, adopt an investment strategy, or use a particular account type. This information does not consider the specific investment objectives, tax and financial conditions or particular needs of any specific person. Investors should discuss their specific situation with their financial professional.

Acorns is not a bank. Acorns Visa™ debit cards and banking services are issued by Lincoln Savings Bank or nbkc bank, members FDIC. Acorns Checking clients are not charged overdraft fees, maintenance fees, or ATM fees for cash withdrawals from in-network ATMs. 

Comparisons are based on the national average Annual Percentage Yields (APY) published in the FDIC National Rates and Rate Caps as of October 16, 2023. As of December 11, 2025, Mighty Oak Checking Annual Percentage Yield (APY) is 2.18% and Emergency Savings APY is 3.35%. APY is variable and subject to change at our discretion, without prior notice. No minimum opening deposit or minimum balance required. 

Acorns Earn provides subscribers access to shop with our partners and earn bonus investments into your Acorns Invest portfolios when purchasing items from the partner brands. Acorns Earn rewards investments are made by Acorns Grow, Inc. into your Acorns Invest account through a partnership Acorns Grow maintains with each Acorns Earn partner. 

Over 14 million all-time customers and over $27 billion invested since inception as of 8/18/2025. App store star rating as of 8/19/2025.

© GoHenry Inc. ("Acorns Early") All rights reserved. Acorns Early is not a bank. The Acorns Early card is issued by Community Federal Savings Bank, member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International. Our office is located at Acorns Early, 5300 California Avenue, Irvine, CA 92617. 

Investment advisory services offered by Acorns Advisers, LLC (“Acorns”), an SEC-registered investment advisor. Brokerage services are provided by Acorns Securities, LLC, an SEC-registered broker-dealer and member FINRA/SIPC. For more information, visit acorns.com/disclosures/.

© 2025 Acorns Grow Incorporated | Disclosures | Accessibility | Privacy Policy | Your Privacy Choices