Skip to main navigationSkip to content
Find a Branch

Contact Us

Chat
Site Search
Search


Log In

Accounts & Products

Advice

Pricing



Why Schwab



Learn
Open an Account

Schwab Stock Slices®. A simple, low-cost way to give the gift of ownership.
Get started
Buy a single slice for as little as $5.
Let's say Apple's stock is selling for $228. Since you're buying a dollar amount instead of a number of shares, you can buy a fractional share for as little as $5.
Or buy multiple slices at a time.
You can get fractional shares in multiple different companies for a total price of $50, instead of a total price of $2,600.
All corporate logos and prices are for illustrative purposes only and are not a recommendation, an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Share prices will vary based on market conditions. Share % is of one share truncated to one decimal point.

Why spend money on gifts like toys that will break or go out of style?
With Schwab Stock Slices, you can introduce someone you care about to a gift they can appreciate over time. Once you have funded a custodial account, for as little as $5 you can purchase fractional shares in any of America's leading companies in the S&P 500®. Whether it's a gift for a birthday, holiday, or graduation, Schwab Stock Slices is a great way to teach minors Tooltip the power of investing.

null
Educational
It provides a way to teach investing to someone you care about. Visit Schwab Moneywise to learn more.

null
Accessible
Any S&P 500 stock is now within reach. See a list of companies in the S&P 500 Index. 

null
Engaging
It can be a fun and exciting way for people you care about to enter the world of investing.

It's easy to get started.
Step
1
Open a Custodial Account
If you already have a custodial account, you can buy stock slices now. If you don't have a custodial account, you will need the contact information, birth date, and SSN of the minor handy to get started. Read more about the Schwab One® Custodial Account.

Step
2
Fund Custodial Account
Once you open the custodial account, it may take a few days for it to be approved and funded. You’ll be notified when your funds are available.

Step
3
Buy Stock Slices
After your account is funded, go to Schwab Stock Slices to get started.

Give the gift of ownership.
Give the gift of ownership.
Open an account
Already have a custodial account? Log in.

Interested in buying fractional shares for yourself?
Interested in buying stock slices for yourself?
Learn more
Already a Schwab client? Log in to your brokerage account to buy stock slices.

slices
Happy to answer any questions.

What is Schwab Stock Slices?

What's a fractional share?

What’s a custodial account?

How can I learn more about opening a custodial account?

Which shares are available for purchase through Schwab Stock Slices?

Is there a minimum or limit on how much I can invest through Schwab Stock Slices?

Is there a limit on the number of fractional shares I can buy through Schwab Stock Slices?

What happens after I purchase stocks through Schwab Stock Slices?

Do I need a Schwab account?

Are there any fees?

How can I let my loved one know about the stock in their custodial account?

What happens to my fractional shares if there is a stock split?
Have more questions? We're here to help.
Call icon
Call
877-535-3961
Chat icon
Chat
Professional answers 24/7 
Visit icon
Visit
Find a Schwab branch near you 
1. Standard online $0 commission does not apply to over-the-counter (OTC) equities, transaction-fee mutual funds, futures, fixed-income investments, or trades placed directly on a foreign exchange or in the Canadian market. Options trades will be subject to the standard $0.65 per-contract fee. Service charges apply for trades placed through a broker ($25) or by automated phone ($5). Industry fees, ADR fees, and Stock Borrow fees still apply. See the Charles Schwab Pricing Guide for Individual Investors for full fee and commission schedules.

Schwab Stock Slices is not intended to be investment advice or a recommendation of any stock. Investing in stocks can be volatile and involves risk, including loss of principal. Consider your individual circumstances prior to investing.

The "S&P 500® Index" is a product of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC or its affiliates ("SPDJI"), and has been licensed for use by Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. ("CS&Co"). Standard & Poor's® and S&P® are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC ("S&P"); Dow Jones® is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC ("Dow Jones"). Schwab Stock Slices is not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by SPDJI, Dow Jones, S&P, or their respective affiliates, and none of such parties make any representation regarding the advisability of using Schwab Stock Slices or investing in any security available through Schwab Stock Slices, nor do they have any liability for any errors, omissions, or interruptions of the S&P 500 Index.

The trademarks/logos appearing in this ad are owned by their respective owners and are used for informational purposes only to identify the public companies whose stock may be available for purchase through the Schwab Stock Slices® program and does not indicate any relationship, sponsorship, or endorsement between Charles Schwab and any of the companies that own those trademarks/logos. 

(0325-12V5)
Investment and Insurance Products Are: Not FDIC Insured • Not Insured by Any Federal Government Agency • Not a Deposit or Other Obligation of, or Guaranteed by, the Bank or any of its Affiliates • Subject to Investment Risks, Including Possible Loss of Principal Amount Invested
The Charles Schwab Corporation provides a full range of brokerage, banking and financial advisory services through its operating subsidiaries. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co. Inc. (Member SIPC), and its affiliates offer investment services and products. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank, SSB (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides deposit and lending services and products.

This site is designed for U.S. residents. Non-U.S. residents are subject to country-specific restrictions. Learn more about our services for non-U.S. residents, Charles Schwab Hong Kong clients, Charles Schwab U.K. clients.

© 2026 Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Member SIPC. Unauthorized access is prohibited. Usage will be monitored.

Visit Schwab on YouTube
Visit Schwab on X formerly Twitter
Visit Schwab on Facebook
Visit Schwab on LinkedIn
Own your tomorrow logo
Accounts
Brokerage
401(k) Rollover
Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs)
Schwab Bank Checking
Small Business Retirement
See More Accounts
Investment Products
Stocks
Mutual Funds
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)
Annuities
Bonds
See More Investment Products
Trading
Trading Platforms
Execution Quality
Options
Futures
Research & Tools
Retirement Calculator
Roth vs. Traditional IRA Calculator
Research Tools
Mobile Apps
Learn
Insights & Education
Trading
Market Commentary
Planning & Retirement
Podcasts
Schwab Network
About Schwab
Why Schwab
Compare Us
Satisfaction Guarantee
Forms & Applications
Pricing
Notify us of a Death
 SchwabSafe  Privacy  Additional Schwab Sites  Site Map  Business Continuity  Financial Statement  Accessibility Help  Contact Us  About Schwab  Careers  Investment Professionals' Compensation  Important Notices  Account Protection  SIPC®  FDIC Insurance  FINRA's Broker Check  Bank Client Complaints  Client Relationship Summaries  Your Privacy Choices
(1124-0VG4)

