
Financial freedom begins today
In less than 3 minutes, kickstart your child’s financial future with a modern holistic portfolio.

Custom managed portfolios
Based on your goals and timeline, the EarlyBird algorithm finds the best portfolio design for you and your child and manages it so you never have to worry.
Blackrock

High Growth
Stocks
iShares Core S&P 500 ETF
iShares Core S&P Small-Cap ETF
iShares Core MSCI Total International Stock ETF
iShares Core MSCI Emerging Markets ETF
Slide 1 of 5.
Flexible family investing
EarlyBird gives your family access to a tax-advantaged custodial investment account called an UGMA account.

Fund their future
Funds in an UGMA account can  be used by your child for any purpose including education, a downpayment on a home, starting a business or traveling the world.


Custodian managed
The account is managed by a custodian (typically a parent) until the child is 18 or 21 depending on the state.


Customize their portfolio
Better exposure for the whole family—With an EarlyBird UGMA account, you’ll have a wider range of investment options and more.

SIPC
Protected up to $500k
Simple, smart and safe
No experience required
Your EarlyBird portfolio is fully managed and automatically rebalanced for long-term performance.
Diversified investments
With a portfolio of ETFs, your investments are distributed across industries and asset classes, so you take on less risk.
Dollar cost averaging
Monthly or weekly recurring investments make it easier for you to ride the ups and downs in market prices.

Investing 101

Investing Fundamentals
Investing fundamentals include diversifying your assets, consistently investing, and building a long-term portfolio of assets to grow over time.
Learn more

What You Need to Know Before Investing Your First $1,000 in the Stock Market
The stock market can be an intimidating place. Here’s what newcomers should know before making their first stock market investment.
Learn more

What Is the Best Way To Invest a Child’s Money?
If your child wants to invest, or you want to get started on their behalf, what should you invest in? Here’s the best way to invest for children.
Learn more
The Power of Community, Compounded
3X your child’s nest egg
With EarlyBird, when parents include family and friends when investing for their child's future, they save 3x more than if they did so alone. We make it simple and meaningful for loved ones to stay connected and invest in the children they love, building more wealth with the power of love and community.

Any hypothetical performance shown is for illustrative purposes only. Such results do not represent actual results and do not take into consideration economic or market factors that can impact performance. This assumes an 8% annual return and an additional $1000 in annual contributions from family and friends under the EarlyBird projection.
Frequently asked questions
We’re an open book.
Are there any extra fees?



Can I pick my own investments?


Should I transfer funds from my 529?


When does my child access their EarlyBird account?



What if I need to withdraw funds early?







FAQ
Blog
Legal
Careers
Support
support@getearlybird.io
‍This website is operated by EarlyBird Central Inc., an SEC-registered Investment Advisor.  Brokerage services are provided to clients of EarlyBird Central Inc. by Apex Clearing Corporation, an SEC-registered broker-dealer and member FINRA.  Apex Clearing Corporation is a member of SIPC. SIPC protects against the loss of cash and securities held by a customer at a financially-troubled SIPC-member brokerage firm. The limit for SIPC protection is $500,000. For details, please see www.sipc.org.

‍

‍Important Disclosures: Investing involves risk, including loss of principal. Read more