
Portfolio
 / 
EarlyBird
Share

Enabling a brighter financial future for the next generation.

stage
Seed
industry
Fintech
website
https://www.getearlybird.io/
Summary
EarlyBird is a family wealth-building platform allowing parents to open custodial investment accounts that can be funded with gifts and contributions from a child's entire community, even before birth. A Registered Investment Advisor focused on the youngest generation, this fintech empowers families to invest in a diverse, modern portfolio that includes traditional assets and crypto. With each contribution towards a child's future, parents, relatives and friends can also leave a legacy of love in the form of video or photo memories.

Background
EarlyBird’s founders, Jordan Wexler and Caleb Frankel, started the company with the vision to create an accessible way for all families to begin building wealth for their children, and to do so with the support, love and contributions of their broader communities. Since their launch, they’ve seen incredible growth, adoption and excitement from families with a wide range of financial knowledge and backgrounds. Some of EarlyBird’s seed stage investors include Seven Seven Six Ventures, Gemini’s Frontier Fund, Network Ventures, Rarebreed Ventures and more.

Why Cashmere Fund Invested:
Enabling a brighter financial future for the next generation:
Family and investing are important at Sweater. EarlyBird empowers families and children by providing tools that introduce investing, integrate financial knowledge into decision-making, and prepare children for account ownership at age 18. Users on the platform range from new expecting parents up to parents with teens. This allows for EarlyBird to acquire users much earlier in their lives and for the child to have more time accumulating financial “gifts” throughout childhood.

Sweater and EarlyBird Fintech Democratization:
Similar to Sweater, EarlyBird is dedicated to breaking down traditional barriers within the financial ecosystem by driving financial literacy, empowerment and freedom for current and future generations. This market spans from Gen Z through Boomer generations and is particularly interesting to consumers with interest in fintech investment strategies.

Other Active Investor
Seven Seven Six
Gemini’s Frontier Fund
Rarebreed
Fiat Ventures
Network Ventures
Alex Lieberman
related investments
Company
About
Blog
Venture Fund
support
Contact
FAQs
legal
Certain Risks and Disclosures
Privacy Policy
join our newsletter and get industry insights straight to your inbox
enter your email
By subscribing you agree to our Privacy Policy
Copyright © Cashmere
LinkedIn
Instagram
X (Twitter)
1 Investors should carefully consider the Cashmere Fund’s investment goals, risks, fees and expenses before investing. The Fund’s prospectus contains this and other information. Please read the Fund’s prospectus carefully before investing.  All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal.  Please also see Certain Risks and Disclosures for additional information.  
2 While reasonable care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of the information provided on this site, no guarantee is made regarding its accuracy, reliability, or completeness, as information may change over time. The content of this site is intended for informational purposes only and is subject to updates.
3 Paid partnership with Cashmere, the Fund's sub-adviser