Your CompanyStockpile Logo
Open main menu
Smart money. Smart families.
Meet the app helping families build financial confidence. Teach kids and teens to save, invest, and spend smart – all while saving up to 25% on college tuition.1

Enter your email

→
Stockpile is not a bank. The Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Debit Account is provided by, and the Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Visa® Debit Card is issued by, Green Dot Bank, Member FDIC. The Tuition Rewards® program is a feature of the Stockpile Family Plus membership plan, not a feature of such account or card, and no points are earned through the use of any such account or card. See here for more information.

Bank accounts for teens
Customers

1+ million

Transaction Volume

2 billion
USD

Funding Raised

45 million
USD

App Store Rating

★ 4.7
of 5

The money and investment app for kids and parents.
Get started

Stockpile <18

Get the debit card that gives kids and teens independence.

Get the debit card that gives kids and teens independence.

Stockpile <18

Put your kids' savings to work with 4.00% APY.3

Put your kids' savings to work with 4.00% APY.<sup>3</sup>

Stockpile <18

Invest in over 3,000 stocks and ETFs with as little as $5.

Invest in over 3,000 stocks and ETFs with as little as $5.

Stockpile Guardians

Teach kids how to budget and make smart financial decisions.

Teach kids how to budget and make smart financial decisions.

Stockpile Guardians

Earn rewards that save you up to 25% on college tuition.1

Earn rewards that save you up to 25% on college tuition.<sup>1</sup>


Why families love Stockpile.
We make it easy for kids and parents to save, invest, and spend together.

Get started


Teach the power of saving from an early age.

Kids learn how saving adds up—and feel proud hitting their goals.



Invest in your family’s future, together.

Explore stocks together, invest in what you know, and grow as a family.



Independence for them. Peace of mind for you.

They gain confidence with money. You stay in control—without hovering.



Send them to college for less money.

Earn rewards year-round and turn them into thousands in college savings.



Choose your plan
Family Base
From $3.95/month

Start simple with our Family Base membership plan. With investing for 1 adult and up to 5 kids, your family can buy fractional shares of top companies, get personalized investment recommendations, and learn all about the stock market—the first step towards building a brighter financial future.

Family Plus
From $6.95/month

Our Family Plus membership plan is a smarter way to grow together. Enjoy all the features of our Family Base plan, plus debit cards and savings for up to 5 kids. You’ll even earn rewards that help you save on college tuition. Get started on a lifetime of good money habits with this powerful plan.

Stockpile Logo
Visa Logo
Online access, mobile number verification (via text message) and identity verification (including SSN) are required to open and use the Green Dot Bank account. Mobile number verification, email address verification and mobile app are required to access all features. See Deposit Account Agreement (PDF) for fees, terms and conditions.

Stockpile <18
Debit Card
Savings
Investing
Rewards
Stockpile Guardians
Budgeting
Rewards
Plans
Family Base
Family Plus
Compare Plans
Help
Help Center
Gift Cards
Contact Us
Company
About
Careers
Media
Learn
Legal
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Fees
Disclosures
*The Stockpile app has an average 4.7 star rating in the Apple App Store with over 55k reviews, as of 03/18/2025. “Customers: 1+ million” based on customers (parents and kids) who have signed up for Stockpile, as of 03/18/2025.

1 The Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Program is provided by SAGE CTB, LLC. and Tuition Rewards® is a Registered Trademark of SAGE Scholars, Inc. Eligibility requirements, membership fees, and terms apply. The 25% represents the maximum a Participating College is obligated to accept, based on freshman year tuition and spread equally over four years (or five for co-op programs). For more information please visit tuitionrewards.com. Tuition Rewards® points are obtained through a Stockpile Family Plus membership plan only.

2 Stockpile, Inc. is not a bank. The Stockpile Membership Deposit Account and the Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Debit Account are provided by, and the Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Visa® Debit Card is issued by Green Dot Bank, Member FDIC. Visa® is a registered trademark of Visa® International Service Association, Inc. Green Dot Bank also operates under the following registered trade names: GO2bank, GoBank, and Bonneville Bank. All of these registered trade names are used by, and refer to, a single FDIC-insured bank, Green Dot Bank. Deposits under any of these trade names are deposits with Green Dot Bank and are aggregated for deposit insurance coverage up to the allowable limits. Only the balance in your Stockpile Membership Deposit Account and Stockpile Tuition Rewards Debit Account with Green Dot Bank, Member FDIC, are eligible to be insured up to the regulatory limits by the FDIC. Any other assets, whether cash, securities, cryptocurrency, gift cards, or otherwise, in account(s) and/or through service(s) provided by or through Stockpile, including investments made through Stockpile Investment Advisors, Inc. (which is currently in the process of registering as an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission), are not FDIC-insured, are not guaranteed by Stockpile, Inc. or its affiliates, and are not deposits or other obligations of, and not guaranteed by, Green Dot Bank or any Green Dot Bank affiliate, and Green Dot Bank and its affiliates have no responsibility for such asset(s), service(s), or account(s). Tuition Rewards® is a registered trademark of SAGE Scholars, Inc., and the Tuition Rewards® program is provided by SAGE CTB, LLC, or its affiliates, through a partnership with Stockpile as part of the applicable Stockpile membership plan only; the Tuition Rewards® program is NOT a feature of the Stockpile Membership Deposit Account, Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Debit Account, or Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Visa® Debit Card, and no points are earned through any activity or transaction with respect to any such account or card, and Green Dot Bank and its affiliates have no responsibility for such Tuition Rewards benefits or any claims or representations made in connection therewith.

3 The Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Debit Account offers a savings vault feature. Once a savings vault is set up, interest is paid monthly on the average daily balance in the vault during the month if the account is in good standing. Fees on the Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Debit Account may reduce earnings on your associated savings vault. 4.00% Annual Percentage Yield (APY) effective as of August 28, 2025. APY and interest rate may change before or after you open an account. Interest earned in savings vaults will be reported under the Social Security number of the adult owner of the account, not the kid's or authorized user's Social Security number. See Deposit Agreement for terms and conditions.

4 Eligibility Requirements: To obtain a Family Base membership, you must be approved for and open a Stockpile Investing Account and a Stockpile Membership Deposit Account, as well as pay a membership fee of $4.95 per month or $47.45 annually. To obtain a Family Plus membership, you must be approved for and open a Stockpile Investing Account and a Stockpile Membership Deposit Account, as well as pay a membership fee of $9.95 per month or $83.40 annually. You must also open a Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Debit Account for each kid you would like to get a debit card for. The Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Debit Account will be opened in your name and your kid will be designated as an authorized user on the debit card.

5 Previously authorized transactions, deposits, and transfers to your account will still process with a locked card.

6 See here for free ATM locations. 1 free withdrawal per monthly statement period, $3.00 per withdrawal thereafter. $3 for out-of-network withdrawals, plus any fee the ATM owner may charge. Limits apply

7 Retail service fee up to $4.95 and limits apply.

8 Regulatory charges (SEC and TAF fees) apply

Gift Card Purchase Policy To help ensure secure transactions and prevent fraud, all gift card purchases must be made using a valid debit card.  We do not accept the following payment methods for gift card purchases:

Credit cards
Cash
Checks
Mobile wallet services (e.g., Apple Pay, Google Pay) unless linked to a debit card
This policy applies to both physical and digital gift card purchases. We appreciate your understanding and cooperation

Stockpile Investment Advisors, Inc. is an SEC-registered investment adviser (CRD#:332799/SEC#:801-131631). Registration as an investment adviser does not imply a certain level of skill or training. The information provided on this website is for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice or an offer to sell or a solicitation to purchase any securities. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Investing involves risk, including the potential loss of principal.

Stockpile Investment Advisors, Inc. provides advisory services only where it is appropriately registered or exempt from registration, and only to clients in jurisdictions where it is permitted to do so. Please refer to our Form ADV Part 2A and Form CRS for additional information about our services, fees, and potential conflicts of interest.

Brokerage services are provided by Apex Clearing Corporation, a SEC registered broker dealer and a Member of FINRA.

Contact Information: 877.374.2584, support@stockpile.com, 679 Toland Place, San Francisco, CA 94124.

Neither Green Dot Bank, Green Dot Corporation, nor Visa U.S.A. or any of their respective affiliates are responsible for products or services provided by third parties. Third party terms and conditions apply. All third-party names and logos are trademarks of their respective owners.

Stockpile Investment Advisors, Inc. does not provide tax or legal advice. You should consult your tax and legal advisors before making any financial decisions.

Design of the Stockpile Tuition Rewards® Visa® Debit Card subject to change.

All investments involve risk, including possible loss of principal. Past performance of a security, market, or financial product does not guarantee future results. Electronic trading poses unique risk to investors. System response and access times may vary due to market conditions, system performance, and other factors. Market volatility, volume, and system availability may delay account access and trade executions. Any references are not an endorsement of a company, recommendation, an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy a security.

Securities products are: Not FDIC-insured · Not bank guaranteed · May lose value. Securities in your account are protected up to $500,000. For details, please see www.sipc.org. (Please note that cryptocurrency assets lack regulatory protections, including Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) protections.)

Apple, the Apple logo, and iPhone are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.

Google, Android and Google Play are trademarks of Google Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.

Intellectual property and affiliations. © Stockpile, Inc. and its affiliates. "Stockpile" is a registered trademark of Stockpile, Inc. Patents pending, and all rights reserved. Trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners and do not represent endorsements of any kind. Unless otherwise noted, Stockpile and its affiliates are not partners, affiliates, or licensees of these companies. Stockpile Gifts, Inc., Stockpile Investments, Inc., and Stockpile Crypto, Inc. are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Stockpile, Inc.

Facebook
Instagram
X
Linkedin
YouTube
© 2025 Stockpile, Inc. San Francisco, California

