Skip Navigation
CNBC

Markets
Business
Investing
Tech
Politics
Video
Investing Club
PRO
Livestream
Make It
select
USA
INTL
Search quotes, news & videos
Watchlist

SIGN IN
Create free account
Invest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.
College Voices
Advisory Board
Retirement Guide
Side hustle guide
Money 101 newsletter
Invest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.
Want to give the gift of stocks this year? What to know
Published Mon, Dec 6 20212:58 PM EST
thumbnail
Carmen Reinicke
@csreinicke
Share
Share Article via Facebook
Share Article via Twitter
Share Article via LinkedIn
Share Article via Email

Betsie Van Der Meer | Getty Images
Struggling to find last-minute holiday gifts that won’t be delayed by supply chain issues?

One simple way to help children or relatives start investing is to gift them stocks or other financial assets.

“If you’re looking at it as a Christmas gift or a holiday gift for a young person, I think purchasing stock is a great way to introduce them to investing,” said Judson Meinhart, a certified financial planner and manager of financial planning at Parsec Financial in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

More from Invest in You:
Half of Americans with retirement accounts have taken an early withdrawal
9 money moves to make before becoming your own boss
How to score a charitable giving write-off if you don’t itemize deductions

“It can be something that they have an interest in, or potentially a long-term growth company they can follow along as they grow,” he added.

Investing in the stock market is a great way to exponentially grow a monetary gift – this year to date, the S&P 500
 index is up more than 21%.

Buying stock for someone else
It is relatively simple for parents to purchase stocks for their children.

To do so, parents need to set up a custodial brokerage account — often called a UTMA (Uniform Transfers to Minors Act) or UGMA (Uniform Gift to Minors Act) account —for their children or another minor in their care. Then, guardians can buy the stocks they want via the account for their kids.

When the child who the account belongs to comes of age — either 18 or 21, depending on the state in which they live — they gain full control and can use the money as they please.

If you’d like to gift your child stock, experts advise making it fun and finding stocks that the child has a connection with.

Financially savvy gift giving ideas for the holidayswatch now
VIDEO03:43
Financially savvy gift giving ideas for the holidays
“It’s important that there’s some sort of emotional attachment to it,” Meinhart said. “It makes for a nice story and can kind of engage the child a little bit more.”

“You could give your daughter a Barbie and give her Mattel
 stock,” said Clark Kendall, a CFP and the president and CEO of Kendall Capital in Rockville, Maryland.

You can also make a habit of looking over quarterly statements or news about companies you’ve invested in with your child to show them how the market works. This can also help solidify lessons like not selling when a stock dips, and instead staying invested over the long-term.

“It’s an opportunity to educate them,” said Kendall, adding that this can help jumpstart an interest in financial literacy early.

Gifting stock you currently own
If you’re looking to gift to an adult friend or family member, you can generally transfer shares from your brokerage to theirs if you have their account information.

You can also gift stock that you currently own to non-profit charities as a donation, instead of writing a check.

How to earn $35,000, $45,000 or $50,000 in interest alone every year in retirementwatch now
VIDEO02:00
How to earn $35,000, $45,000 or $50,000 annually in interest
This comes with certain tax advantages that make it attractive. If you give assets directly to a qualified charity, they don’t have to pay capital gains.

Still, you should only give stocks to charity because you genuinely want to make the gift, according to Mark Jaeger, director of tax development at TaxAct, a software provider.

“It should be about the spirit of doing it and then wanting to do it to support a specific charity,” Jaeger said.

Other options
If you’re looking to gift a child money that will be invested and grow over time, there are a few other ways to do it.

You could help contribute to a 529 plan for their future education. If your child has a job, you could also help them establish a Roth individual retirement account and contribute either money or gift assets that way.

Why this millennial money expert is investing in index fundswatch now
VIDEO01:20
Why this millennial money expert is investing in index funds
Such plans don’t offer the same flexibility as a custodial brokerage account. If the child ultimately decides not to go to college, it can be difficult to access the money in a 529 plan without penalty. With a Roth IRA, they need to have earned income, and there are limits on how much they can contribute and what they can withdraw before retirement.

With a custodial account, there aren’t any limits on how the child can use the money. Such an account also gives parents or people gifting stock more options on what they can give.

Other considerations
If you’re gifting or donating stocks, there are a few things for both giver and receiver to consider.

It can be beneficial for people to give stocks to avoid paying capital gains taxes, but it means that you’re passing a potential tax along to whomever you’re gifting. This could be worth it, though, if the person you’re giving to is in a lower tax bracket. Depending on their income, they may pay a 0% capital gains tax.

And, if you gift more than $15,000 per year, including stocks, you must file extra paperwork with the IRS. You may also be subject to a gift tax, but only if you’ve gifted more than the current lifetime cap of $11.7 million.

If you want to make the most of gifting stocks and other assets, a financial advisor can help you with the process.

SIGN UP: Money 101 is an 8-week learning course to financial freedom, delivered weekly to your inbox.

CHECK OUT: How to make money with creative side hustles, from people who earn thousands on sites like Etsy and Twitch via Grow with Acorns+CNBC.

Disclosure: NBCUniversal and Comcast Ventures are investors in Acorns.

Related

Considering a budgeting and investing app? Here’s how to vet it before handing over your information

Here are 5 steps to build a budget if you don’t have a steady income

Trump signs off on $600 stimulus checks, but a vote on $2,000 direct payments is still happening

Why 401(k) savings plans won’t fix the U.S. retirement crisis
"There's no big secret to having a good credit score, it's just consistency and thoughtfulness and commonsense."
110 million consumers could see their credit scores change under new FICO scoring
More In Invest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.
Should you be worried about your money, your bank or the U.S. banking system? Experts weigh in
Should you be worried about your money, your bank or the U.S. banking system? Experts weigh in
Jessica Dickler
Why you should buy everything with credit cards — provided you meet 1 condition
Why you should buy everything with credit cards — provided you meet 1 condition
Emily Lorsch
Missing tax forms will 'definitely' delay your refund, expert warns. How to know which ones you need
Missing tax forms will ‘definitely’ delay your refund, expert warns. How to know which ones you need
Kate Dore, CFP®, EA
Read More
CNBC logo
Subscribe to CNBC PRO
Subscribe to Investing Club
Licensing & Reprints
CNBC Councils
Select Personal Finance
Join the CNBC Panel
Closed Captioning
Digital Products
News Releases
Internships
Corrections
About CNBC
Site Map
Podcasts
Careers
Help
Contact
News Tips
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.

Get In Touch
CNBC Newsletters
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox

Sign Up Now
Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.

Advertise With Us
Please Contact Us
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
Terms of Service
© 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.

Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.

Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers
Data also provided by
Reuters logo

This site is now part of Versant. By continuing, you agree to our Terms. You also acknowledge that our updated Privacy Policy applies, including your existing data. For info on your data rights, click “Your Privacy Choices” or see “Your Rights” in our Privacy Policy.

We and our partners also use tools on this site to provide the services, personalize your experience, and for analytics, marketing, and advertising. If you previously opted out of selling, sharing, or targeted advertising on this site, you will need to update your Privacy Choice.

Your Privacy Choices Continue