

Our Story
Cashmere Fund
Insights
Launch Your Fund
Portfolio Companies

Enabling a brighter financial future for the next generation

Stage
Seed
Industry
Fintech
Status
Fund an account for a child in your life through web or mobile options
Website
https://www.getearlybird.io/
Your child’s journey to financial freedom starts here
Summary
EarlyBird is a family wealth-building platform allowing parents to open custodial investment accounts that can be funded with gifts and contributions from a child's entire community, even before birth. A Registered Investment Advisor focused on the youngest generation, this fintech empowers families to invest in a diverse, modern portfolio that includes traditional assets and crypto. With each contribution towards a child's future, parents, relatives and friends can also leave a legacy of love in the form of video or photo memories.

Background
EarlyBird’s founders, Jordan Wexler and Caleb Frankel, started the company with the vision to create an accessible way for all families to begin building wealth for their children, and to do so with the support, love and contributions of their broader communities. Since their launch, they’ve seen incredible growth, adoption and excitement from families with a wide range of financial knowledge and backgrounds. Some of EarlyBird’s seed stage investors include Seven Seven Six Ventures, Gemini’s Frontier Fund, Network Ventures, Rarebreed Ventures and more.

Why Sweater Invested
Enabling a brighter financial future for the next generation: Family and investing are important at Sweater. EarlyBird empowers families and children by providing tools that introduce investing, integrate financial knowledge into decision-making, and prepare children for account ownership at age 18. Users on the platform range from new expecting parents up to parents with teens. This allows for EarlyBird to acquire users much earlier in their lives and for the child to have more time accumulating financial “gifts” throughout childhood.
Sweater and EarlyBird Fintech Democratization: Similar to Sweater, EarlyBird is dedicated to breaking down traditional barriers within the financial ecosystem by driving financial literacy, empowerment and freedom for current and future generations. This market spans from Gen Z through Boomer generations and is particularly interesting to consumers with interest in fintech investment strategies.
Other Active Investors
Seven Seven Six, Gemini’s Frontier Fund, Rarebreed, Fiat Ventures, Network Ventures, Alex Lieberman

Disclosure: Investors should carefully consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses of the Fund before investing. The prospectus contains this and other information about the Fund and can be obtained by calling 1-888-577-7987 or by visiting the Fund’s website at www.sweaterventures.com/cashmerefund. Please read the prospectus carefully before investing. All investments involve risks, and past performance is no guarantee of future results.

LinkedIn
Company
About
Insights
Careers
Support
FAQ
Contact
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Disclosure
Copyright © Sweater Inc
