Menux
FinanceBuzz
Search for...
search articles icon
Advertiser and Editorial Disclosures
Investing
Brokerages & Advisors
UNest Review [February 2026]: Invest For Your Kids' Future, But Fees Apply
UNest allows you to invest for your child with pre-made portfolios. However, monthly fees can eat into your earnings.

Ben Walker, CEPF, CFEI®
Erin Gobler
By Ben Walker, CEPF, CFEI® and Erin Gobler
Mindy Woodall
Edited by Mindy Woodall
Updated April 15, 2025
Fact check checkmark icon Fact checked
UNest
UNest
OUR VIEW
UNest may be an attractive option if you want to open a custodial account for your child, but don’t want the responsibility of choosing investments. It may also work well for families with lots of loved ones who want to contribute financially to your child’s future since it has a friends and family gifting feature.

That being said, we think most people would be better served using a different custodial account. You can open a custodial account with any major brokerage firm without the monthly fees that UNest charges. And even if you’re uncomfortable choosing your own investments, most other brokers have a robo-advisor option, meaning it can still be a hands-off experience.

Pros
Easy to sign up and manage
Variety of portfolio options
Easy for loved ones to contribute
Cons
Charges a monthly fee
Limited investment options
In this article
How we rate products
Robo-advisors and online brokerage accounts can make investing easy. The best apps offer diversification, a range of account types, and planning tools to help you make the most of your money. We include these factors when we rate investing apps and accounts.

We also consider account minimums and management fees, customer support options, and desirable features like tax loss harvesting and automated rebalancing.

You might like UNest if you want to be able to choose between different investment portfolios based on risk tolerance and other factors. This makes it easy for beginner investors to get started without having to research individual stocks and companies.

What is UNest?
UNest is an investment account that's designed to help build savings for your child's future. The company was founded in 2018 by Ksenia Yudina and is based in California. Its mission is to reimagine how families save and invest for their kids and to make investing more accessible for families of all backgrounds and incomes.

UNest offers investment accounts, known as custodial brokerage accounts, that parents can use to save for their children's future without the limits of other types of accounts. Its platform relies on AI to help provide personalized advice and optimized investment portfolios.

UNest's mobile app is available on iOS and Android devices through the Apple App Store or Google Play and has a couple of different account types to choose from. The app has hundreds of thousands of downloads across the two platforms, with an average rating of 4.7 stars on Apple and 3.8 stars on Google Play.

UNest features and services
UNest is designed to help you save and invest for your child's future. It does that primarily through a custodial brokerage account but comes with other helpful features.

Custodial brokerage account
UNest offers a custodial investment account that's called a Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) account. A UTMA account is one you manage for your child until they reach the age of majority, which is either 18 or 21 in most states.

At that point, your child's account is turned over to them, and they can use the funds for whatever they want, whether it's paying for college, buying a home, starting a business, traveling the world, or something else.


Good to know
Keep in mind that once your child reaches the age of majority, they control how the money in the account is spent. So, even if you save with a specific purpose in mind, such as paying for college, your child could choose to use the money for something else entirely.
Custodial account vs. 529 plan
UTMA accounts are a good alternative to 529 plans, but with some major differences. While both accounts are used to invest for your children's future, a 529 plan is specifically designed for college savings, while an UTMA account can be used for anything.

529 plans have more tax advantages, including tax-free earnings and withdrawals, but you'll pay taxes and penalties on withdrawals used for anything other than educational expenses. On the other hand, earnings from a UTMA account are taxable, but at your child's tax rate instead of your own.

While a 529 plan is a great option when you know you want the money you're saving to be used for your child's education, an UTMA is a better option if you want to save more broadly for your child's future.

Customizable portfolio options
UNest differs from a traditional brokerage like Fidelity or Charles Schwab in that you can't just choose any investment you want. Instead, you choose from nine different pre-built portfolio options. UNest offers the following portfolios:

Conservative: This portfolio consists of fixed-income and bond exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and is designed for those with the lowest risk tolerance. Unlike the age-based portfolios, this one doesn't adjust its holdings based on your child's age.
Age-based: UNest has three age-based portfolios: conservative, moderate, and aggressive. Each one includes a mix of fixed-income and equity investments and gets more conservative as your child gets older.
Socially responsible: UNest has three socially responsible age-based portfolios. They mimic the other age-based funds but invest in ESG (environmental, social, and governance) investments.
Aggressive: This portfolio consists entirely of equity ETFs and is designed for those with the highest risk tolerance. Unlike the age-based portfolios, this one doesn't adjust its holdings based on your child's age.
UNest rewards
UNest offers ways to add cash to your UNest account when you purchase products and services from more than 100 brands, including Disney+ and Nike. Rewards are based on either a percentage of your purchase or a flat dollar amount.

You can check available offers in the UNest app. It typically takes 30 to 40 business days for rewards to post to your account. This could be an easy way to boost your account balance if you're already planning to make a purchase with a UNest partner that has an available offer.

Friends and family gifting
Friends and family members can contribute to your child's custodial account through the UNest gifting platform. Here's how it works:

A friend or family member picks an occasion
They choose how much money to gift and add a message
They select a payment method and complete the transaction
They share the gift code with you to redeem it in the UNest app
This gifting platform isn't necessarily any better than a friend or family member giving you cash. But at least it basically gives them a guarantee that the money will be going toward your child's custodial account.


Note:
At the time of writing this in November 2024, the gifting feature is currently paused, but UNest states that it will return. 
Family protection
UNest offers two additional services to help protect your family's finances: life insurance and identity protection.

UNest's life insurance policies are offered by Wysh Life Insurance, a UNest partner. Wysh will recommend a coverage amount based on your family's needs, and you can adjust your coverage amount at any time.

UNest also offers identity protection through its partner Aura. It provides protection for up to five adults and unlimited children. It comes with fraud alerts, VPN, a password manager, antivirus software, and more. Finally, it has up to $1 million of coverage to replace identity theft losses.


Warning
It's important to note that while these services are offered through UNest, they aren't included in your UNest subscription. You'll have to pay extra for them.
UNest plans and pricing
UNest has two different plans to choose from, depending on how many custodial accounts you want to open. Here's how those plans break down:

UNest Starter	UNest Plus
Monthly price	$4.99	$9.99
Annual price	$39.99	$79.99
Number of custodial accounts	1	Unlimited
In addition to their similarities, these two account types have a few things in common. Features available for all UNest accounts include:

Online account setup and management
Bank-level encryption
Automated investing
UNest rewards
Friends and family gifting
Access to UNest Support
FAQs

What is a UTMA account?
Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) accounts are custodial accounts that hold assets for a minor. The custodian manages the account, but all assets are owned by the minor. The account turns over to the former minor when they reach the legal age of adulthood in their state, which is usually around 18 to 21.

Is my money safe with UNest?
UNest investment accounts are protected up to $500,000 through SIPC insurance for money that's already been invested. You're protected up to $250,000 through FDIC insurance for any money in your account that hasn't been invested. These protections are provided by UNest partners, Apex Clearing Corporation (SIPC) and First Horizon Bank (FDIC).

Can I withdraw from UNest?
Yes, you can typically withdraw any time from your UNest account without any penalties as long as funds are used for the benefit of the child on the account. Withdrawals are taxed similarly to any earnings on the account, which is often at the child's tax rate for unearned income.

UNest alternatives
If you want to open a custodial account for your child but aren't sure if UNest is right for you, there are plenty of other options to consider. Many popular brokerages offer custodial accounts alongside other investment accounts. Here are a few of our favorites.

Charles Schwab
Charles Schwab offers 529 plans and custodial accounts if you specifically want to put money away for a child. A 529 account could make more sense than UNest because it comes with tax advantages — which could include state tax deductions or credits — for funds you plan to put toward school-related expenses.

A Schwab custodial account provides more flexible and customizable investment options than a UNest account. This includes being able to buy and sell individual stocks and choose which mutual funds or ETFs to put money into. And there aren't any subscription or maintenance fees to worry about.

Read our Charles Schwab review.

Fidelity
Like Charles Schwab, Fidelity is a major brokerage firm that offers custodial accounts with no management fees that allow you to choose your own investments. They offer a broader range of investment choices than UNest, including stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and ETFs.

There are a few benefits that make Fidelity stand out for parents. First, in addition to choosing your own investments, you can opt for a robo-advisor, which builds you a customized portfolio and charges no advisory fees for balances under $25,000.

Fidelity also offers a teen brokerage account for kids 13 through 17. It puts your kids in the driver's seat more than a traditional custodial account, so it could be a good option as your child gets older. However, it doesn't give the parent as much control as an UTMA account would.

Read our Fidelity review.

Acorns
Acorns offers a custodial account known as Acorns Early Invest, and it's just as easy to open and manage as UNest's. Like UNest, Acorns invests custodial account funds into its managed portfolios. All custodial accounts use the "Aggressive Portfolio," which may not be ideal for particularly risk-averse families. Acorns also offer automated contributions.

As an added bonus, Acorns offers a 1% match on your contributions when you invest in your child's Early Invest account.

Acorns' pricing works a bit differently from UNest because it offers more than just custodial accounts. To access Early Invest, you'll need the most expensive plan, which is $12 per month. However, that plan comes with lots of other features, including:

Taxable brokerage account
Spare change round-ups
Access to Mighty Oak Banking
Rewards on spending at participating partner brands
Acorns Early kids' debit cards and banking
Life insurance and will planning
Read our Acorns review.

Bottom line
UNest is a great option if you want a flexible investment account for your kids. Funds in custodial accounts can typically be used for anything, which differs from other options, such as 529 accounts, where the funds are meant to be used for school-related expenses.

It's easy to get started with UNest because you can use a mobile app to open and manage your account. But you might feel limited with its potentially inflexible investment options compared with a custodial account from major brokerage firms. You also have to pay a subscription fee to use UNest, which isn't the case for all custodial accounts.

To learn more about different investment options, check out our list of the best investment apps.

Acorns
Learn More
4.6
info
Kids’ debit cards and banking included with Acorns Gold
Acorns Early includes chores and many parental controls
Better educational resources than other kids’ banking apps
One month free trial for Acorns Early
Paid Non-Client Promotion

Ben Walker, CEPF, CFEI®
Author Details

Ben Walker, CEPF, CFEI®

Ben Walker, CEPF, CFEI®, is credit cards specialist. For over a decade, he's leveraged credit card points and miles to travel the world. His expertise extends to other areas of personal finance — including loans, insurance, investing, and real estate — and you can find his insights on The Washington Post, Debt.com, Yahoo! Finance, and Fox Business.
Erin Gobler
Author Details

Erin Gobler

Erin Gobler, an editor for FinanceBuzz, is a personal finance expert and journalist based in Madison, Wisconsin. She holds a certificate in financial planning and has a decade of experience writing online. Erin has covered topics such as credit cards, mortgages, investing, personal loans, and insurance, with work published in major publications like Newsweek, CNN, Forbes, and more.
Download cash app
Sponsored
Best of Investing
Best Online Brokerage Accounts [2026]: Low Fees and Abundant Asset Options
Best Robo-Advisors of February 2026
6 Best Investment Apps of [February 2026]
Related Reviews
Robinhood Review [2026]: My Experience With Commission-Free Trading
SoFi Invest® Review [2026]: Lots of Investment Options, No-Commission Trading
Public Review [2026]: Commission-Free Trading + Automated Investing
UNest
New & Featured Stories
Man holding a phone showing a stock market chart
Best Micro-Investing Apps [2026]: You Only Need Spare Change To Start
A woman holds her phone while smiling in front of computers.
Penny Stocks on Robinhood [2026]: Are They Worth the Risk?
A man sits at his office, smiling down at his phone. 
How Are RSUs Taxed?
A woman uses a financing app while sitting on her couch.
SoFi Invest® vs. Betterment [2026]: SoFi®'s Minimal Fees Give It the Upper Hand
Young woman looking at a bill
Smart Money Moves: Financial Planning Tips for Young Adults
Couple talking to a financial advisor
Financial Advisors for Young Adults
Financebuzz Logo
FBZ Facebook
FBZ Instagram
FBZ X
FBZ Youtube
About
Press
Ratings Methodologies
Work for Us
Our Contributors
Contact Us
Partner With Us
Subscribe
myFinanceBuzz
Buzzery, LLC (d/b/a "FinanceBuzz"), is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as an investment adviser. FinanceBuzz’s advisory services are limited to referring users to other third party registered investment advisers ("Adviser(s)") that have elected to participate in our matching platform based on information gathered from users through our online questionnaire. FinanceBuzz receives compensation from Advisers for our services. FinanceBuzz does not review the ongoing performance of any Adviser, participate in the management of any user’s account by an Adviser or provide advice regarding specific investments. We do not manage client funds or hold custody of assets, we help users connect with Advisers. This is not an offer to buy or sell any security. All investing involves risk, including loss of principal. Working with an Adviser may come with potential downsides such as payment of fees (which will reduce returns). There are no guarantees that working with an Adviser will yield positive returns. Registration as an investment adviser does not imply any certain level of skill or training.

Opinions expressed here are the author's alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline, or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by these entities.

We strive to provide up-to-date information, but make no warranties regarding the accuracy of our information. Ultimately, you are responsible for your financial decisions. FinanceBuzz does not provide credit cards or any other financial products. FinanceBuzz.com does not make any credit decisions.

111 E. Atlantic Ave., Suite 200
Delray Beach, FL 33444
Advertising Policy
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Terms of Use
DMCA
Unsubscribe
Copyright © 2026 FinanceBuzz
