Skip to content
NerdWallet Home PageNerdWallet Home Page
NerdWallet Logo
Pondering your next move? Get our best articles about investing sent to you.
Continue with Apple

or continue with email
By signing up, I agree to NerdWallet's
Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
Investing
Learn
How to Give Stock as a Gift (And Why Tax Pros Like the Idea)
Advertiser disclosure
How to Give Stock as a Gift (And Why Tax Pros Like the Idea)
Gifting stock may provide value for your loved ones long after the holidays have come and gone.


Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money.

The investing information provided on this page is for educational purposes only. NerdWallet, Inc. does not offer advisory or brokerage services, nor does it recommend or advise investors to buy or sell particular stocks, securities or other investments.

Updated Oct 13, 2025 · 3 min read

Fact Checked
Profile photo of Chris Davis
Written by 
Chris Davis
Managing Editor
+  more 
Profile photo of Michael Randall
Reviewed by 
Michael Randall
Certified Financial Planner®
Profile photo of Arielle O'Shea
Edited by 
Arielle O'Shea
Head of Content, Investing & Taxes
What's a gift that has the potential to be worth more tomorrow than it is today? Stock. Gifting stock is easier than you think, and doing so may offer a few perks for you, too.

Can you gift stock?
The benefits of gifting stocks
How to gift stock in three steps
Can you gift stock?
Yes, you can gift stock. Gifting stock means the recipient will benefit from any increases in the stock's value. You can gift stock to kids through a custodial account, and you can gift stock to adults with a simple transfer.

» Check out our roundup of the best custodial accounts

Brokerage firms

Charles Schwab
NerdWallet rating 
on Charles Schwab's website

E*TRADE
NerdWallet rating 
on E*TRADE's website

Vanguard
NerdWallet rating 
Fidelity
NerdWallet rating 
on Fidelity's website

The benefits of gifting stocks
Hang around seasoned investors long enough, and you’ll likely hear a familiar refrain: If only I’d started investing sooner. Giving stocks as a gift can help your family and friends put this advice into practice — especially kids, who may benefit most from long-term compounding returns.

And if you’re giving stocks you already own, there could be a tax advantage for you. From a tax perspective, gifting is a smart way to transfer an appreciated stock, says Karl Schwartz, a certified public accountant and regional director at Team Hewins in Boca Raton, Florida.

"Let’s say you’re an adult and you have this stock with a lot of gains built into it. If you were to sell it, you would pay taxes on the gain. Assuming it’s long-term, you might pay 15%," he says. But instead of selling the stock, you could give it as a gift, transferring the gains to the recipient.

» Check out our roundup of the best online brokerages for stock trading

"The person who received the stock now has that appreciated stock. They can hold it if they want, but if they sell it, assuming they’re in a lower tax bracket, they might pay 0% in capital gains taxes," Schwartz says.

In other words, both the giver and receiver could avoid paying capital gains altogether on stock that’s been appreciating for years. (Learn more about how capital gains taxes work.)

That’s not the only route to giving stocks, though. You can also buy stocks or other securities you don’t already own, then gift them. Here are two reasons you might consider gifting stocks this year.

1. To give to charity the wise way
As long as the charity is set up for it, donating stock instead of cash can be a smart way to do good this holiday season.

For example, if you want to donate $1,000 to a charity but have to dip into your portfolio to raise the cash, you might pay capital gains taxes on that sale, netting you less than $1,000 to donate. But if you gave $1,000 in stock instead, there’s no tax consequence for you because you’re not realizing any of the gains, and the charity won’t pay taxes when it sells the stock since it's a tax-exempt entity. What’s more, you may be able to claim a fair market value charitable deduction on that donation. Want to pass these savings back to the charity? All the merrier.

» Learn about more charitable giving tax strategies

2. As an early step toward passing down wealth
If you’re thinking about your legacy, gifting stocks can be a valuable tool, as opposed to liquidating and paying capital gains taxes. As of 2025, the IRS allows you to gift up to $19,000 per year, per person — including stock. Married individuals who file jointly can gift up to $19,000 for a total of $38,000 to any single recipient.

These limits aren't bound by familial or marital ties. So technically, you could give $19,000 in stock to each of your children, grandchildren, in-laws, friends and neighbors each year. Couples who file jointly may also be able to take advantage of gift splitting by filing Form 709, which allows them to utilize the doubled gift limit even if only one spouse is contributing.
[1]

» Learn more about gift taxes or estate planning

How to gift stock in three steps
You can gift stock to kids through a custodial account, while you can gift stock to adults through a simple transfer from your brokerage account.

1. Gifting stock to kids through a custodial account
One of the simplest ways to get kids started in stocks is to set up a custodial brokerage account. You’ll be able to transfer existing shares of stock, mutual funds or other securities from your account to the custodial account, or buy specific securities directly within the custodial account. The child will take control of the account when they hit a certain age — typically 18 or 21, depending on the state.

Be wary of what the IRS calls the "kiddie tax," though. Once a child's unearned income hits $2,500, it can become taxable at the parent's tax rate.
[2]
 For this reason, it may be favorable to select stocks that pay out little to no capital gains or interest.

2. Gifting stock through a Roth IRA
If you're considering a custodial account for a child, it's also worth exploring Roth IRAs for kids. You can't transfer stocks as a gift like you can with a custodial account, and the child will need to have earned income to get started, but it's one way to avoid the kiddie tax issue (and the account grows tax-free).

AD
How does your
net worth stack up?
See where you stand compared to households like yours, and get steps you could take to grow from here.

Head, Person, Face
NWWP is an SEC-registered investment adviser. Registration does not imply skill or training. Calculator by NerdWallet, Inc., an affiliate, for informational purposes only.

3. Gifting stock to friends and family
All that’s required to transfer shares to an adult friend or family member is for the receiver to have a brokerage account. There are a few logistical hurdles though — you’ll need their account information and a few more personal details to actually perform the transfer. If they don’t have an account, you could help open and fund one for them as part of the gift.

You can start the process online in your own brokerage account by opting to gift shares or securities you own; if you can’t find that option, contact your brokerage firm directly. If you want to gift a stock you don’t already own, you’ll have to purchase it in your account, then transfer it to the recipient.

» Check out our roundup of the best online brokerages for stock trading

Article sources
 Back to top
About the author
Chris Davis
Chris Davis
Chris Davis is a Managing Editor on the Investing team. He has covered the stock market, investing strategies, investment accounts and cryptocurrency, and his work has appeared in The Associated Press, The Washington Post, MSN, Yahoo Finance, MarketWatch, Newsday and TheStreet. See full bio.

More like this
Investment Basics
Investing
NerdWallet Home Page
Finance Smarter
about
Company
Leadership
Careers
Corporate impact
Diversity & Inclusion
Editorial guidelines
Star rating methodologies
Editorial team
Press
Press kit
Investors
help
Help center
Security FAQs
legal
Terms of use
Supplier Code of Conduct
Privacy policy
California privacy policy
Privacy preferences
Do not sell or share my personal information
Learn more about the app
Download the app

Download on the App Store
4.8
121,000+ reviews
Get it on Google Play
4.3
31,200+ reviews
QR code for downloading the app
Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product's site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution's Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly.

NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539

NMLS Consumer Access | Licenses and Disclosures

California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812

Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)   Insurance Licenses

Fundera, Inc. NMLS ID# 1240038

NMLS Consumer Access

California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to the Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #603L288

NerdWallet has engaged Atomic Invest LLC (“Atomic”), an SEC-registered investment adviser, to bring you the opportunity to open investment advisory accounts (Automated Investing Account and/or Treasury Account) with Atomic. NerdWallet receives compensation of 0% to 0.85% of assets under management annualized, payable monthly, for each referred client who opens an Atomic account and a percentage of free cash interest earned by clients, which creates a conflict of interest. Brokerage services for Atomic are provided by Atomic Brokerage LLC ("Atomic Brokerage"), member of FINRA/SIPC and an affiliate of Atomic, which creates a conflict of interest. See details about Atomic, in their Form CRS, Form ADV Part 2A and Privacy Policy. See details about Atomic Brokerage in their Form CRS, General Disclosures, fee schedule, and FINRA’s BrokerCheck.

You also can open a Cash Account offered by Atomic Brokerage which allows you to earn interest on your cash through a cash sweep program. View Important Cash Account Disclosures.

Neither Atomic Invest nor Atomic Brokerage, nor any of their affiliates is a bank. Investments in securities: Not FDIC Insured, Not Bank Guaranteed, May Lose Value. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. Before investing, consider your investment objectives and the fees and expenses charged.

Images are for illustrative purposes only.

NerdWallet™ | 4150 N Drinkwater Blvd, Suite 200, Scottsdale, AZ 85251

USANerdWallet USA
|
UKNerdWallet UK
|
CANerdWallet CA
© 2026 NerdWallet, Inc.
All Rights Reserved.
X
YouTube
Instagram
Apple Podcasts
TikTok