Skip to content
Find a Branch

Contact Us

Chat
Site Search
Search


Log In

Accounts & Products

Advice

Pricing



Why Schwab



Learn
Open an Account
Search Learn
Search Learn

Tax Planning
The Upshot of Gifting Appreciated Stock
Can you gift stocks to your children or grandchildren and potentially avoid capital gains? Learn more about the considerations to make when gifting stock to kids.
November 7, 2025•Hayden Adams


Figuring out the best gift for the teen or young adult in your life can be difficult. Cash is an common choice, but those who want to give a more purposeful gift might instead consider shares in a company.

Stock is a symbolic gift as well as a financial one. It says, "I think you're mature enough to navigate and enhance your knowledge in the world of investing." Plus, if you gift them appreciated stock from your own portfolio, you both can potentially benefit.

For the recipient, receiving appreciated stock can be a lesson in financial literacy. Don't just transfer the shares—explain what you paid for them, how much they're worth today, and why you think the stock could be a good holding.

It's also an opportunity to discuss the tax consequences of selling. The recipient will inherit the giver's original cost basis and holding period, so if the stock has significant gains, the recipient will be on the hook for the accompanying taxes should they choose to sell. Fortunately, a young person who is independent is likely to have a low capital gains tax rate—possibly even 0% if their income falls within the lowest tax bracket (under $48,350 for single filers in 2025 and $49,450 for 2026) when they sell and if the shares have been held longer than a year cumulatively by the original owner and the recipient.

For the giver, the advantage can be twofold: Not only could you avoid capital gains taxes, but you could also remove potential appreciation from your estate, which is important if you're worried about estate taxes. However, if the value of the shares exceeds the annual gift tax limit of $19,000 per recipient in 2025 (remains unchanged for 2026), the excess amount will count against your lifetime gift and estate tax exemption of $13.99 million per individual in 2025 (increasing to $15 million for 2026).
Despite the many benefits of gifting appreciated stock, there are caveats:

The kiddie tax applies to full-time students under the age of 24 (at the end of the calendar year) who don't have enough earned income to cover at least 50% of their own living and education expenses. In those cases, unearned income (such as dividends or interest payments from the gifted assets) that exceeds $2,700 in 2025 or 2026 is subject to their parents' income tax rate.
Financial aid calculations—which treat up to 20% of the assets owned by a dependent student as available to pay for college—may be affected by the gift. Likewise, up to 20% of their income (such as from the sale of the assets) in excess of certain limits will be included in the calculations. To learn more about this, visit the Federal Student Aid website.
The kiddie tax may not be a concern if the shares don't throw off a lot of income, but financial aid repercussions should definitely be a consideration. A tax advisor can help you think through the most tax-efficient way to gift assets.

Help your kids and grandkids open a Schwab brokerage account.

Ready to invest tax-efficiently?
See how Schwab can help
More from Charles Schwab

Life Insurance and Your Estate
Article | Feb 6, 2026

3 Ways to Pass Down a Home
Article | Feb 2, 2026

What is a Tax Deduction?
Article | Jan 30, 2026
Explore more topics
Tax Planning
Stocks
Estate Planning
This material is intended for general informational and educational purposes only. The investment strategies mentioned may not be suitable for everyone. Each investor needs to review an investment strategy for his or her own particular situation before making any investment decisions.

All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice in reaction to shifting market, economic, or political conditions. Data contained herein from third party providers is obtained from what are considered reliable sources. However, its accuracy, completeness or reliability cannot be guaranteed.

Investing involves risk, including loss of principal.

This information is not a specific recommendation nor individualized tax, legal, or investment advice. Tax laws are subject to change, either prospectively or retroactively. Where specific advice is necessary or appropriate, individuals should contact their own professional tax and investment advisors or other professionals (CPA, Financial Planner, Investment Manager, Estate Attorney) to help answer questions about specific situations or needs prior to taking any action based upon this information.

The Schwab Center for Financial Research is a division of Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.

1125-36KS
Investment and Insurance Products Are: Not FDIC Insured • Not Insured by Any Federal Government Agency • Not a Deposit or Other Obligation of, or Guaranteed by, the Bank or any of its Affiliates • Subject to Investment Risks, Including Possible Loss of Principal Amount Invested
The Charles Schwab Corporation provides a full range of brokerage, banking and financial advisory services through its operating subsidiaries. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co. Inc. (Member SIPC), and its affiliates offer investment services and products. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank, SSB (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides deposit and lending services and products.

This site is designed for U.S. residents. Non-U.S. residents are subject to country-specific restrictions. Learn more about our services for non-U.S. residents, Charles Schwab Hong Kong clients, Charles Schwab U.K. clients.

© 2026 Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Member SIPC. Unauthorized access is prohibited. Usage will be monitored.

own your tomorrow
Accounts

Brokerage
401(k) Rollover
Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs)
Schwab Bank Checking
Small Business Retirement
See More Accounts
Investment Products

Stocks
Mutual Funds
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)
Annuities
Bonds
See More Investment Products
Trading

Trading Platforms
Execution Quality
Options
Futures
Research & Tools

Retirement Calculator
Roth vs. Traditional IRA Calculator
Research Tools
Mobile Apps
Learn

Insights & Education
Trading
Market Commentary
Planning & Retirement
Podcasts
Schwab Network
About Schwab

Why Schwab
Compare Us
Satisfaction Guarantee
Forms & Applications
Pricing
Notify us of a Death
SchwabSafe
Privacy
Additional Schwab Sites
Site Map
Business Continuity
Financial Statement
Accessibility Help
Contact Us
About Schwab
Careers
Investment Professionals' Compensation
Important Notices
Account Protection
SIPC®
FDIC Insurance
FINRA's Broker Check
Bank Client Complaints
Client Relationship Summaries
Your Privacy Choices
(1124-0VG4)

