Subscribe

Jump To
Section

Search Business Insider


Business

Tech

Markets

Lifestyle

Politics

Reviews

Video
Subscribe
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Get the app
Personal Finance
Investing
How to gift stock: Four ways to gift stock to friends, family, and charities
Written by Tessa Campbell and Jake Safaneedited by Sarah Silbert
Paid non-client promotion: Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate investing products to write unbiased product reviews.
Expert Reviewed
This article was expert reviewed by Lisa Niser, EA, an enrolled agent and tax advisor.

Family gifts stock as others open gifts together at home.

Stock gifts can help young people learn about money and investing.Jose Luis Pelaez Inc/Getty
Updated Apr 28, 2025, 11:22 AM ET

Share
SaveSaved
Gifting stock can be more valuable than cash and a way to pass down wealth or give to charities.
Stock gifts valued at up to $19,000 (or $38,000 if a married couple gifts) remove gift tax liability from the gifter.
The recipient may be subject to capital gains tax, though the rate depends on their taxable income.
What's a better gift for your loved ones than the chance to build wealth? Although some people prefer to get cash or gift cards for occasions such as birthdays, graduations, and holidays, you can do them one better by gifting stock.

Compared to tangible gifts that can wear and tear, stocks can be more beneficial over the long term since they can appreciate over time. Plus, by giving stock as a gift to your friends or family, you may even be able to gift yourself a tax break, while ultimately giving more than if you sold the stock and gave the proceeds as a cash gift. If you want to give back to causes you care about, you can even gift stock to charities.

You can gift stocks through some of the best stock trading apps. These apps typically have low fees, analysis tools, and much more. But remember that there's no guarantee that the stock you gift will increase in value. Also, recipients may be subject to significant capital gains taxes, cutting into your generous sentiment. Or, you might give more than the gift tax exemption, cutting into what you can later pass on.

So, it's important to strategically gift stock so you can maximize the benefits to yourself and the recipients.

Here are some of the top strategies regarding how to transfer stocks to another person as a gift or how to gift stocks to charities.

4 ways to gift stock
Stock, of course, isn't a physical gift that you can buy at the store and wrap in a bow. When you gift a stock, you deliver shares to another individual (or organization), typically from your brokerage account to theirs. Technically, you can also transfer physical stock certificates, but since those have largely been phased out, we'll stick to covering electronic transfers here.

Important: Senders don't sell the shares before transferring the stock to the recipient — doing so would leave you with a tax bill and defeat the potential benefits of gifting stock.

Here are four ways to gift stock to others, depending on the recipient and your preferred approach:

1. Gifting stock to friends and family
One of the most common ways to gift stock is by transferring it from one brokerage account to another. To get started, you'll generally need to contact your brokerage, which technically makes the transfer from your investment custodian, which is often an affiliate of your brokerage or a third party that your brokerage easily connects you with. You can then expect to complete brokerage or custodian-mandated paperwork before gifting the shares of stock, according to Brian Fry, founder and CFP at Safe Landing Financial.

For instance, if you're a current Fidelity account holder and want to gift stock to another Fidelity user, you'll need to complete a form that details information about the recipient's account and the securities you're gifting. There's also a box to check that specifies the transfer is a gift.

If you choose to transfer stock directly, the recipient can receive the full share value (or a fractional share dollar amount if your brokerage allows it). Note, however, that the stock transfer process may vary between brokerages or investment platforms, such as regarding the timing and fees.

For example, with Robinhood, you can transfer assets out of the app and into other brokerages, but there is a $100 fee on all partial or full transfers.

2. Gifting stock to kids
Your children and other minors can also receive stock as a gift through a custodial brokerage account like a UTMA or UGMA. If you're wondering how to gift stock to a child, there are two main ways.

The first gifting process is generally the same as when you transfer stock or another security between brokerage accounts.

You also have the option to buy stock directly within a custodial account, even if you're not the parent or guardian of the recipient. Grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, and even family friends can open and contribute through some of the best custodial accounts if the beneficiary is a minor, though exact rules can vary by brokerage.

But be careful how much you or others contribute to a custodial account, or the child may lose tax benefits. If the stocks generate taxable income, such as if they're sold once they're in the custodial account or if they generate dividends, that could trigger taxes for the child. Under the kiddie tax rule for 2025, the first $1,350 of a child's unearned income is tax-free. The following $1,350 unearned income is taxed at the lower child tax rate. After that, all unearned income is taxed at the parent's tax rate.

3. Gifting stock to charities
You can gift stock to other individuals, but you can also gift it to charities. The process for gifting stock to charity is similar to that of gifting stock to other individuals, but the tax implications differ.

To initiate the transfer, you'll generally need to include things like the charity's name, its account information, and the stock(s) you're transferring. You can contact your brokerage if you're not sure where to begin, and the charity you're donating to might also provide more details on how to initiate the transfer.

Unlike when gifting stock to friends and family, however, gifting stock to a charity can provide you with a tax deduction, while enabling you to give more to the charity than you might in cash.

"You want to be giving your lowest basis shares to charity since charity does not pay tax, and those shares are the least valuable to you because they have the highest percentage of capital gains," explains Nicole Webb, CFP and senior vice president at Wealth Enhancement Group.

In other words, if you sold stock that you purchased for a low amount, and now it's worth much more, you could face substantial capital gains taxes. By gifting it to charity, though, you bypass the capital gains tax. And while that capital gains tax burden would ordinarily fall to the recipient when transferring to friends or family, registered charities in the U.S. don't have to pay these taxes, so you can really maximize the gift.

Meanwhile, if you itemize, you can take a tax deduction by counting the gift as a charitable contribution, based on the value of the stock at the time of transfer.

Another option is to gift stock to charity by setting up a donor-advised fund and contributing low-cost basis shares. This can help stack your deductions, according to Webb.

"You can make one larger gift to that donor-advised fund and receive a larger deduction in specific tax years if you're eligible, and then give to charity in the following years out of that account," she explains.

Still, you'll have to account for IRS deductibility limits when making charitable contributions. The rules can be a bit complex, and subject to change, so you might consider checking with a tax advisor or similar professional first. That said, there's a decent chance you won't hit the limit. For 2025, you can gift up to 30% of your adjusted gross income (AGI) when giving capital gain property based on the fair market value.

4. Gifting stock through a service or gift cards
While gifting stock often means transferring your existing shares, that's not the only way. You can also buy stock as a gift in the sense that you can buy gift cards through companies like Stockpile. They're "almost like a transfer of an amount of cash, then [the recipient] chooses where it goes," Owens explains.

You could also purchase single shares of a company's stock through services like GiveAShare, and UniqueStockGift.com. These options even come with a certificate, but costs are often much higher than buying stocks electronically.

Who's eligible to gift stocks?
Everybody is eligible to gift stock, but the real question is who will receive the stock, explains Webb, as well as when.

"The thing to keep in mind is that the recipient of that stock, if you're giving it while you're alive, receives your cost basis for that stock," says Webb.

The cost basis represents the price and any trading fees or other associated expenses you originally paid for the stock you're gifting. When you transfer stock to someone else, that person assumes the cost basis, and thus the tax liability, for the stock you've given them. In other words, gifting stock to individuals isn't a taxable event for you as long as you remain within the annual gift allowance threshold ( $19,000 for individual filers, $38,000 for those who are married filing jointly in 2025). Yet the recipient might pay capital gains taxes when they sell eventually, based on the difference between the price at the time of the sale and the price when it was originally acquired by the giver.

The rules are slightly different for charities. According to Webb, the cost basis doesn't matter when it comes to gifting to charities since charities don't pay taxes. "So if they want to sell the stock, which most charities would, you don't have to worry about any tax consequences for charity," she explains.

Benefits of gifting stocks
Greater value than cash
As the gifter, you can avoid capital gains by transferring stock. That can ultimately mean transferring more money. For example, if you gifted stock worth $10,000 that you originally acquired for $5,000, you can avoid the $5,000 worth of capital gains. At a 15% long-term capital gains tax rate, that means saving $750. In contrast, if you sold the stock for $10,000 and paid the capital gains tax, you'd only have $9,250 to gift in cash.

While the recipient might ultimately owe capital gains taxes when they sell, their capital gains rate might be lower than yours, meaning you both come out ahead vs. gifting cash. Also, gifting stock can help the recipient easily acquire an asset that can grow over time, rather than going through the extra steps of transferring cash and then having the recipient buy stocks with that cash.

Teaches kids investing skills
Stock gifting is often done within families, especially from parents to children, says Dondrea Owens, CPA and founder of The Profit Table.

"A lot of parents and grandparents don't necessarily want to buy toys or just give kids money, but they will give them stock because it's a way for them to start building wealth at a very early age," Owens explains. Not only does that help from a direct monetary perspective, but it can also be a valuable tool used to educate loved ones about money and investing.

If your kids receive stocks as gifts, they might learn from an early age how these assets build wealth over time, and they can learn to appreciate these assets over products they quickly outgrow.

Tax advantages of gifting stock

Tied to the benefit of giving a greater value than cash, a big advantage for the gifter is that it allows you to transfer any capital gains taxes to the recipient if the shares' fair market value is greater than the original cost basis. And if you're donating stock to charity, you'll generally be able to deduct the full fair market value of the securities you're donating.

Moreover, there's no hard cap on the dollar amount you can gift to charity like there is when gifting to individuals. Instead, it depends on your income. But assuming you don't go over those thresholds, then "there's no maximum amount you're allowed to gift to charity in a year," says Webb.

This way, you'll also be able to give more to the organization than you would by selling the stock, paying tax on the appreciation, and then gifting whatever is left.

Tax implications of gifting stocks
As mentioned, when gifting stock, there will be tax implications for both the giver and the receiver. Luckily, it may be possible for both parties to come out on top. Generally, when you sell an asset for more than the price you paid (or, your cost basis), you're subject to a tax on the capital gains. The rate is determined by how long you hold the asset and your taxable income.

However, once the gifter transfers stock ownership, they no longer have to worry about capital gains taxes.

"When you decide to gift it, there's nothing to be taxed," says Owens.

Still, transferring stock from one person to another won't completely eliminate capital gains tax. Someone will have to pay it eventually or, at the very least, report the gain, even if that person is subject to a 0% capital gains tax rate.

The general gift and estate tax also comes into play, whether gifting stock, cash, or anything else of value. The IRS allows you to give away $19,000 tax-free per year per person in 2025. So, consider the value of the stock you're gifting along with any other gifts, such as cash transfers.

If you're gifting more than the gift allowance per year, as the donor, you will need to file a gift tax return and may be subject to a gift tax. The rules get a little complex, but basically when you exceed this annual exemption, you then cut into the lifetime gift and estate tax exemption of $13.99 million per individual (double if married) for 2025 (keeping in mind that amounts may change in the future).

Ultimately, every situation is different, and it's best to consult with a professional about your potential tax liability before making any decisions.

Tax implications of gifting stock to charity
With charitable giving, you can deduct the complete fair market value (or current market value of the stock you're gifting) of the security you're donating.

For instance, if you originally invested $10,000 into a certain stock (and held it for more than one year), and the fair market value at the time of your donation was $40,000, you could both avoid long-term capital gains taxes and make a $40,000 charitable deduction (as long as you don't surpass IRS deduction limits).

What other investment types can you gift?
You can gift most types of investments like bonds, mutual funds, commodities, or cryptocurrencies, with the same limitations regarding taxes.

Whether you're gifting traditional assets like mutual funds or stocks, or offering things like jewelry, precious metals, or other alternative assets, you need to remain mindful of the fair market value of the assets you're transferring when it comes to taxes, Webb explains.

If you're giving stock or something similar, it's helpful to gather any upfront documentation, such as the cost basis of the shares, and provide that to the recipient for their future use. As the receiver, "Keep really accurate documentation of what you received and what its valuation is at any point in time," Owens explains.

Alternatives to gifting stock
There are multiple methods you can utilize if you want a longer-term approach to gifting stock. These include setting up a custodial account or trust account.

Custodial accounts
With the custodial option, you can open an investment account for a minor (typically someone under age 18 or 21, depending on the state), and that minor will assume complete control over the account once they reach their state's age of majority. These can be a good solution for how to gift stock to a child, as you can easily transfer cash into the account and buy stocks within it.

For instance, Charles Schwab offers custodial accounts that let you gift Schwab Stock Slices (or fractional shares) to minors. These are portions of stocks or ETFs that can be bought into for lower amounts than buying full shares (you're not getting a discount, just being able to buy a smaller slice).

Popular custodial account options include Uniform Gift to Minor Act (UGMA) accounts and Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) accounts. Although these accounts operate similarly, the kind of assets they hold varies. For example, UGMAs are limited to liquid assets like cash and stocks, whereas UTMAs can hold alternative investments like real estate or collectibles. Nowadays, most states offer UTMAs, while UGMAs are being phased out.

Some other gifts to help advance others' financial future may include funding 529 plans for college or Roth IRAs for children or adult children with income, according to Fry.

Trust accounts
Trust accounts function like custodial accounts, but they offer more wiggle room when it comes to transferring account ownership. In addition, they allow you, the owner, to provide specific instructions for how you want the assets distributed.

Trust accounts are managed by trustees on behalf of a third party and typically can hold assets like stocks, cash, bonds, real estate, and much more. However, there's a lot more legwork (and typically cost) involved with setting up a trust account compared to a custodial account.

Start investing
FAQs about gifting stock 
What is a gift stock?

Do you have to pay taxes on gifted stocks?

Is it better to gift stock or cash?

Can I gift stock without paying capital gains?

Is gifting stock a good idea?


Tessa Campbell
Tessa Campbell
Investing and Retirement Reporter

Tessa Campbell was an investing and retirement reporter on Business Insider’s personal finance desk. Over two years of personal finance reporting, Tessa built expertise on a range of financial topics, from the best credit cards to the best retirement savings accounts.ExperienceTessa reported on all things investing — deep-diving into complex financial topics, shedding light on lesser-known investment avenues, and uncovering ways readers can work the system to their advantage.As a personal finance expert in her 20s, Tessa is acutely aware of the impacts time and uncertainty have on your investment decisions. While she curated Business Insider’s guide on the best investment apps, she believed that your financial portfolio does not have to be perfect, it just has to exist. A small investment is better than nothing, and the mistakes you make along the way are a necessary part of the learning process.Expertise: Tessa’s expertise includes:
Credit cards
Investing apps
Retirement savings
Cryptocurrency
The stock market
Retail investing
Education: Tessa graduated from Susquehanna University with a creative writing degree and a psychology minor.When she’s not digging into a financial topic, you’ll find Tessa waist-deep in her second cup of coffee. She currently drinks Kitty Town coffee, which blends her love of coffee with her love for her two cats: Keekee and Dumpling. It was a targeted advertisement, and it worked.
Read more
Jake Safane
Jake Safane

Jake Safane is a freelance writer specializing in finance and sustainability. He runs a corporate sustainability blog, Carbon Neutral Copy, and his work has appeared in publications such as The Economist, CBS MoneyWatch, and the Los Angeles Times.ExperienceJake has been working in financial journalism since 2011, covering areas such as banking and investing for both businesses and individuals. His career has included a mix of in-house reporting jobs at B2B finance publications such as Global Custodian and FundFire, a role in sponsored research at The Economist, and freelance engagements with online publications, financial advisors, and fintech companies.His interest in personal finance dates back to joining his middle school stock trading club, where he learned about markets by doing simulated trading. A high school field trip to the New York Fed further cemented his fascination with the financial system and how seemingly academic concepts can make a big difference in the average person's life.His personal interest in the environment has also carried over into finance, such as by covering ESG and impact investing. He believes that one of the top ways to solve the climate crisis is by helping both businesses and individuals realize the long-term financial benefits that sustainability can bring.In his personal life, he also enjoys playing tennis, going to the gym, and going to the beach with his family — though often just for walks along a paved path, because vacuuming sand trekked in by a toddler and dog really cuts into writing time.ExpertiseJake’s areas of personal finance expertise include:
Investing
Banking
Financial Planning
Retirement
Insurance
EducationJake is a graduate of Boston University, where he wrote for The Daily Free Press and had a show on the school's radio station.
Read more
Read next

Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know

Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know

Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider
Download on the App Store
Get it on Google Play
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
Corrections
Community Guidelines
AI Use
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2026 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
Insider.com TM Logo
Insider
Insider-Inc Logo
Tech Insider Logo
Business Insider DE Logo
Insider Media Logo
Insider Media Logo
News Insider Logo
Silicon Alley Logo
Jump to

Main content
Search
Account
Jump to top of page
