Weekly email
Search
Martin Lewis
MoneySavingExpert
Search MoneySavingExpert...
Submit
Cards & Loans
Household Bills
Complain & Reclaim
Banking & Savings
Mortgages & Homes
Travel
Insurance
Deals & Shopping
Income & Budgeting
Students
Forum
News
About the site
MSE's Editorial Code
How we're financed
Martin's blog
Home
Home› Savings & investments
MSE Links

Savings - Guides and tools

Guides and tools to help you find the right account for you. Try our Savings Calculator


Top savings accounts

Find the top interest rate savings accounts and maximise your returns with Martin Lewis' guide

 We’d like to remind Forumites to please avoid political debate on the Forum.
📨 Have you signed up to the Forum's new Email Digest yet? Get a selection of trending threads sent straight to your inbox daily, weekly or monthly!
The Forum now has a brand new text editor, adding a bunch of handy features to use when creating posts. Read more in our how-to guide
Is it possible to gift Stocks & Shares to someone else?
Picard91
Picard91 Posts:
67
 
Forumite
 Third Anniversary 10 Posts Name Dropper Photogenic
6 April 2020 at 10:02PM
Hi All,

Hoping someone can help, I have around 75 Shares with IWeb Trading in a company, all valued at around £1500. It is in a Stocks & Shares ISA.
I want to gift these shares to someone else. Is that possible? Anyone any experience with doing this?
Welcome!
It looks like you're new here. Sign in or register to get started.
Comments
p00hsticks
p00hsticks Posts:
14,877
 
Forumite
 Part of the Furniture 10,000 Posts Name Dropper Photogenic
7 April 2020 at 12:07AM
I'm not an expert, but as they're in an ISA I think you'd have to sell them and then take them money out the ISA and then either gift the money or re-buy the shares in the name of the recipient (although you'd probably need to arrange this with the recipient to ensure they have a platform set up to hold them)
Tildaplum
Tildaplum Posts:
411
 
Forumite
 100 Posts Name Dropper
7 April 2020 at 8:41AM
You cannot transfer any ISA to someone else - it is an individual savings account

as above sell the shares and transfer the money although of course they would lose their tax-free status
cloud_dog
cloud_dog Posts:
6,401
 
Forumite
 Part of the Furniture 1,000 Posts Name Dropper Photogenic
7 April 2020 at 9:20AM
It is possible but, you will need to die first.... tricky.
Personal Responsibility - Sad but True :D

Sometimes.... I am like a dog with a bone
george4064
george4064 Posts:
2,949
 
Forumite
 Part of the Furniture 1,000 Posts Photogenic Name Dropper
7 April 2020 at 10:14AM edited 7 April 2020 at 10:14AM
p00hsticks said:
I'm not an expert, but as they're in an ISA I think you'd have to sell them and then take them money out the ISA and then either gift the money or re-buy the shares in the name of the recipient (although you'd probably need to arrange this with the recipient to ensure they have a platform set up to hold them)
I agree, can't think of any other way to transfer ISA holdings to someone else other than inheritance.
"If you aren’t willing to own a stock for ten years, don’t even think about owning it for ten minutes” Warren Buffett

Save £12k in 2025 - #024 £1,450 / £15,000 (9%)
[Deleted User]
[Deleted User] Posts:
0
 
Newbie
 Part of the Furniture 1,000 Posts Name Dropper
7 April 2020 at 10:39AM
Sorry to jump in on this thread, but can I ask - what if the money is invested in a general account not in an isa; can the funds be transferred to someone else without having to sell the units/shares?
port_of_spain
port_of_spain Posts:
141
 
Forumite
 100 Posts
7 April 2020 at 10:46AM
You can do it without selling the shares, but you will probably need to do it in 2 steps:
1) Transfer the shares out of the ISA, i.e. make them a non-tax-sheltered investment in your own name.
2) Transfer them from your name to the donee.

Step (1) could be done by the old-fashioned way, viz. by asking your ISA manager to rematerialize your shares, i.e. give you them as a physical share certificate. And then you would complete step (2) by sending the certificate to the company's registrar, with instructions (they may have a form for this) to reissue with a certificate in the donee's name (and explicitly telling them that it is a gift). Note there is some risk with sending share certificates through the post (which would be happening 3 times!).

Alternatively, you could do step (1) by asking your ISA manager to transfer the shares from your ISA to your GIA (unwrapped account). And then from your GIA to a GIA held by the donee. This would almost certainly require both you and the donee to hold GIAs with the same company who manages your ISA. And not all provider will necessarily support these kinds of transfers.

Note that the shares will come within the scope of capital gains tax for the (brief) period between steps (1) and (2), so you will have a taxable gain or loss, based on the change in the market value of the shares between those steps. Though this won't be an issue unless you have other chargeable gains, since the annual CGT allowance is £12,300.
george4064
george4064 Posts:
2,949
 
Forumite
 Part of the Furniture 1,000 Posts Photogenic Name Dropper
7 April 2020 at 10:47AM edited 22 August 2025 at 3:08PM
[Deleted User] said:
Sorry to jump in on this thread, but can I ask - what if the money is invested in a general account not in an isa; can the funds be transferred to someone else without having to sell the units/shares?
In theory, yes you can do this, but it depends on where you hold the funds currently. Hargreaves Lansdown allow it (see link below), but for other platforms you will need to check with them.

https://www.hl.co.uk/help/fund-and-share-account/fund-and-share-account/transferring-investments/can-i-transfer-shares-held-in-someone-elses-name-into-my-vantage-fund-and-share-account
"If you aren’t willing to own a stock for ten years, don’t even think about owning it for ten minutes” Warren Buffett

Save £12k in 2025 - #024 £1,450 / £15,000 (9%)
JohnRo
JohnRo Posts:
2,887
 
Forumite
 Tenth Anniversary 1,000 Posts Combo Breaker
7 April 2020 at 10:51AM
CSD will reregister the assets if a signed written instruction is given.
'We don't need to be smarter than the rest; we need to be more disciplined than the rest.' - WB
dunstonh
dunstonh Posts:
120,944
 
Forumite
 Part of the Furniture 10,000 Posts Name Dropper Combo Breaker
7 April 2020 at 12:46PM
Assets in an GIA can be stock transferred to a third party.   Most platforms will support this 
 Assets in an ISA would need to be sold first to cash and then paid to the third party as cash (or put in a GIA and then stock transferred - but that step is extra work and easier for the third party to pick the investments).


I am an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). The comments I make are just my opinion and are for discussion purposes only. They are not financial advice and you should not treat them as such. If you feel an area discussed may be relevant to you, then please seek advice from an Independent Financial Adviser local to you.
This discussion has been closed.
Home› Savings & investments
Back to Top
★ ★ ★ Meet your Ambassadors
Welcome!
It looks like you're new here. Sign in or register to get started.
Quick Links
🏠 Forum Home
🗂️ All Boards
🆕 Latest Threads
❤️ Help the Forum
Pitch in with quick actions to help

Tip Email
Get our FREE Weekly email full of deals & guides - and it’s spam-free
Enter Email Address
FAQs Privacy Past Emails Unsubscribe
How this site works
We think it's important you understand the strengths and limitations of the site. We're a journalistic website and aim to provide the best MoneySaving guides, tips, tools and techniques, but can't guarantee to be perfect, so do note you use the information at your own risk and we can't accept liability if things go wrong.

This info does not constitute financial advice, always do your own research on top to ensure it's right for your specific circumstances and remember we focus on rates not service.
We don't as a general policy investigate the solvency of companies mentioned (how likely they are to go bust), but there is a risk any company can struggle and it's rarely made public until it's too late (see the Section 75 guide for protection tips).
We often link to other websites, but we can't be responsible for their content.
Do note, while we always aim to give you accurate product info at the point of publication, unfortunately price and terms of products and deals can always be changed by the provider afterwards, so double check first.
Always remember anyone can post on the MSE forums, so it can be very different from our opinion.
MoneySavingExpert.com is part of the MONY Group (formerly called the MoneySupermarket Group), but is entirely editorially independent. Its stance of putting consumers first is protected and enshrined in the legally binding MSE Editorial Code.

Please read the Full Terms & Conditions , Privacy Policy, Cookies Q&A, How this site is financed and MSE's Editorial Code.

About the site
MSE’S Editorial Code
Site’s funding
Sitemap
Accessibility
Emails FAQs
Site FAQs
Forum Rules
Jobs
Contacts
Modern Slavery Act
Martins Biography
The MSE Charity Fund
MoneySavingExpert has an app!
Learn more about it here or download it from your app store.
Follow MSE
Martin Lewis is a registered trade mark belonging to Martin S Lewis.
