Please note: This website includes an accessibility system. Press Control-F11 to adjust the website to people with visual disabilities who are using a screen reader; Press Control-F10 to open an accessibility menu.
Press enter for Accessibility for blind peoplewho use screen readers
Press enter for Keyboard Navigation
Press enter for Accessibility menu
Acorns logo
For YouDownward arrow





For Your FamilyDownward arrow


Plans & Pricing
Learn
Support
Log in
Get started
The Fine Print of Acorns
Important Disclosures Acorns Early Invest Match Terms & Conditions Acorns Early December 2024 Promotion Terms Link In Bio Disclosures TikTok Welcome Back Bonus Promotion Terms & Conditions $20 Bonus Promotion Terms & Conditions February $20 Bonus Promotion Terms & Conditions Acorns Early x Minecraft Movie Promotion Terms $20 College Student Bonus Promotion Terms & Conditions $25 T-Mobile Tuesday Bonus Promotion Terms & Conditions Financial Literacy Month - $20 Free Allowance Promotion Terms $75 Breakaway Music Festival Bonus Promotion Terms & Conditions Match Your Tax Refund or Payment Sweepstakes Rules ECFC $40 Acorns Bonus Investment Promotion Terms and Conditions ECFC Season Ticket on Acorns Promotion Terms and Conditions Acorns Early x Minecraft Movie Promotion Terms 2.0 EarlyBird Promotion [A] EarlyBird Promotion [B] $20 Chicago Sky Bonus Investment Promotion Terms and Conditions Acorns Early x The Purse Promotion Terms and Conditions Summer Promotion - Free Month and $20 Allowance Promotion Terms $25 Zeta Bonus Investment Promotion Terms and Conditions Upgrade Incentive Promo Terms Acorns Creator $20 Bonus Investment Promotion Terms and Conditions Mailer Promotion - Free Month and $20 Allowance Promotion Terms Begin $50 Acorns Bonus Investment Promotion Terms and Conditions GUESS THE ROUND-UP® CHANGE CONTEST Strava Challenge Reward Terms & Conditions Duolingo $20 Bonus Investment Promotion Terms & Conditions Terms of Use Wrap Fee Brochure Accessibility Statement Acorns on Social Media Set it and Invest it Challenge Terms Gift Card Terms Mighty Oak Card Long Game Sweepstakes Terms Gold Tier Tunsgten Promotions Terms Later Match Terms & Conditions Referral Promotion Terms Earn Rewards Match TikTok Bonus Promotion Terms & Conditions Acorns Returning Customer Promotion Terms and Conditions August Acorns Complete Registration Offer Terms and Conditions September Acorns Complete Registration Offer Terms and Conditions October Acorns Complete Registration Offer Terms and Conditions Acorns Complete Registration Offer Terms and Conditions Existing Acorns Customer Promotion Terms and Conditions Program Agreement Privacy Policy Acorns Early Terms and Conditions Important Disclosures Referral Agreement Business Continuity Plan Form CRS LSB MRDC Disclosure LSB Send Check Disclosure Unaudited Statement of Financial Condition as of June 30, 2025 Audited Statement of Financial Condition as of December 31, 2024
Gift cards (including electronic gift codes) are one-time use cards and are only redeemable in connection with Acorns various investment advisory services (collectively, the “Services”). Activated cards can only be redeemed if you are: age 18 or older; a lawful resident of the United States and located in the United States; and approved for an Acorns account and accept the account terms and program agreement. To redeem a gift card, go to www.acorns.com/redeem and enter the card’s PIN number.

Gift cards are assigned a fixed monetary value (for example, $10 or $25). The entire value of the gift card will be applied to your Acorns account upon redemption. No incremental redemptions are allowed. You must add a funding source to your Acorns account in order to withdraw funds. No transaction fees apply to the redemption of your gift card and your gift card funds do not expire. Acorns accounts are subject to a monthly wrap fee, which may vary depending on the total assets kept in your Acorns account. For a detailed description of the Acorns wrap fee, go to www.acorns.com/program-agreement.

Use of a gift card constitutes acceptance of these terms and conditions. Until you are approved for an Acorns account, you will not be a customer of Acorns and Acorns will not collect or retain any information regarding you or any gift card you own. Only certain gift cards may be returned to the original retailer with valid proof of purchase. In addition, certain gift cards may only be redeemed by new customers of Acorns. Please refer to the terms and conditions that accompany your card for policy on returns and redemptions by existing Acorns customers. Gift cards cannot be used to purchase other goods or services other than the Services, cannot be used to purchase other gift cards, and cannot be reloaded, resold, or transferred for value. For combinations with other offers, additional restrictions may apply. Acorns reserves the right to reject or void this gift card if Acorns suspects the gift card was obtained or used fraudulently, unlawfully, or otherwise in violation of these terms.

Gift cards may not be used in connection with any marketing, advertising or other promotional activities without Acorns’s prior written approval. Use of Acorns’s name, logo, trade dress, or trademarks in connection with the purchase or use of the gift cards is strictly prohibited. Furthermore, the use of gift cards in any manner that states or implies that any person, website, business, product, or service is endorsed or sponsored by, or otherwise affiliated with, Acorns is prohibited without Acorns’s prior written approval.

Title to the gift cards and the risk of loss, destruction, or deterioration pass to the purchaser upon purchase. The card issuer or Acorns are not responsible for any gift cards that are lost, stolen, destroyed, or used without your permission. IN THE EVENT A GIFT CARD IS NON-FUNCTIONAL, YOUR SOLE REMEDY, AND THE CARD ISSUER AND ACORNS’S SOLE POTENTIAL LIABILITY, WILL BE THE REPLACEMENT OF SUCH GIFT CARD.

Acorns terms and conditions apply, including the Acorns Privacy Policy. Gift cards are issued by Acorns Gift, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. When you purchase, receive or redeem a gift card, you agree that the laws of Delaware, without regard to principles of conflict of laws, will govern these gift card terms.

Acorns may modify any of the terms and conditions governing use of the gift cards and Acorns Terms of Use at any time, with or without notice, even though these changes may affect your ability to use the gift card, subject to our compliance with applicable laws. The most current version of these terms will be available on this site and will supersede all previous versions of these terms.

Have any questions?
Contact support
Products
Invest for your future
Later starts today
Earn extra money
Early investors
Bank smarter
 
Who we are
About
Security
Careers
Press
 
Why start now
Learn
Acorns logo
Pricing Store Affiliates Acorns Legal Acorns Early Legal Your Privacy Choices
Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube TikTok Wheelchair icon
Investing involves risk, including the loss of principal. Please consider your objectives, risk tolerance, and Acorns’ fees before investing. Investment products and services offered by Acorns Advisers, LLC (Acorns), an SEC Registered Investment Adviser. Brokerage products and services are provided by Acorns Securities, LLC, an SEC registered Broker Dealer, Member FINRA/SIPC. Investment products are NOT FDIC INSURED, NOT BANK GUARANTEED, and MAY LOSE VALUE. View additional investing disclosures.
 
Acorns is not a bank. Acorns Visa™ debit cards and banking services are issued and provided by Lincoln Savings Bank and nbkc bank, Members FDIC. Acorns Mighty Oak Visa™ debit cards and banking services are issued and provided by nbkc bank, Member FDIC, to Acorns Mighty Oak checking account holders that are U.S. residents over the age of eighteen (18).
 
Acorns Early is not a bank. The Acorns Early card is issued by nbkc Bank, Member FDIC, pursuant to license by Visa®, and Community Federal Savings Bank, member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International. Cardholder Terms and limits apply.
  
Acorns, GoHenry, Round-Ups® investments, Real-Time Round-Ups® investments, Invest the Change and the Acorns logo are registered trademarks of Acorns Grow Incorporated. All product and company names are trademarks™ or registered® trademarks of their respective holders. Use of them does not imply any affiliation with or endorsement by them.
  
Acorns Wrap Fee Brochure | Form CRS | FINRA’s BrokerCheck
 
For additional important risks, disclosures, and information, please visit https://www.acorns.com/important-disclosures/.
 
© 2026 Acorns Grow Incorporated | Accessibility