thoughts to consider : 

lets think through this. im thinking ofthe different user types. theres a giver ( we should find a way to call these), theres a parent and son, and theres individuals (maybe longer term or maybe now idk but can even make this mainstream kinda like cashapp for stocks). for the flow im thinking like okay i make an account either for myself or my child, i set the fund or registry or whatever its called eg my account i have one for me and one for my son, then within each card or thing i can create oages or something each with the same qr code to give but like eg a nice page for his bar mitzvah or another for a birthday or wedding and so on. and there should be common templtes. and matching thank you cards i think. all must be so fucking beaitufl and sleek and advanced and powerful idk just a big thing.  i connect or create the brokerage or whataveer it needs to be i have no idea (and if possible we make money by sending accounts to these brokerages - unless we do it ourselves? i dont think so tho, you let me know), 



then this can be shared or printed or emailed or whatever it is and people can easily. they can super simple and without an account scan or go to it, select a dollar amount, not sure if preset by person or if theyd have option to choose of where to send it like specific stock or eneral ie cash in their brokerage or something. you get me? then the parent with the account and somehow the kid can keep an eye and see all theyd wnt/need. theres also general like i can give to my newphew or friend or whatever at any moment. then maybe idk if dumb or not but kinda a cashapp type thing where i can payback my friend but instead of cash its stock or cash from brokerage or something like that. not sure if good idea or no. 





and like so if someone has a kid itd become a thing they make their account with us and set it up and over the course of this kids life people  can invest in them buy them shares and stuff generally for events whenever. all histroy should be available for who its important to. the whole ex and expereince and flow andeverything should be incredibly seamless and flow and maKE SENSE AND SIMPLE AND DUMBED DOWN AND SO ON. maybe theres an opportuntiy to teach eg the kid can have a way to view and udnwerstand and learn and so on. for revenue  im not sure im thinking we if podssible we get money by bringing accounts to brokerages and stuff, and then transaction fee we discussed. tbh im not sure about the revenue model. i think you need to highly consider the users expenses all in costs complexity simplcity dumbeddownness and sp on. and also much more separate from what im saying.



as far as the brand goes. sophisticated, trustwortyhy, simple, no fluff. people should fucking lvoe us