Kiplinger
Kiplinger subscription offer
From $107.88 $24.99

Subscribe to Kiplinger


Retirement
Investing
Taxes
Personal Finance
Savings
Shopping and Deals
Credit Cards
Insurance
Money-saving
Banking
Life
Adviser Intel
More
Subscriptions
Trending
An Emerging AI Threat
House GOP Predicts Bigger Tax Refunds
11 Overlooked Tax Deductions and Credits
Best Fidelity Mutual Funds to Buy Now
Home  Investing  Stocks
How Do I Gift Stocks?
Making presents of investments can benefit those who receive as well as those who give. Here's how to gift stocks this holiday season.

Coryanne Hicks's avatar
By Coryanne Hicks
last updated December 11, 2025
in
Features

Share this article
Print
Join the conversation
Follow us
Add us as a preferred source on Google
Newsletter
Subscribe to our newsletter
blue shiny gift box with a gold ribbon and a blue background

(Image credit: Getty Images)
It's the season of gift-giving, also known as the worst season of the year for people who hate shopping. What do you give the person who has everything? How do you come up with a gift that's meaningful and won't just sit in a cupboard or end up at Goodwill next spring?

Advertisement
The good news is that if you're an investor, the answer may be something you already own, and you don't even need to leave the house to gift it.

What's more, this gift can benefit both you and the receiver financially. What is it, you ask? Stock.

Free Issue
View your FREE issue of Kiplinger Investing for Income
Generate steady income – up to 6% cash yield or more – safely and reliably, year in and year out, under any market conditions.


Image of the Kiplinger Investing for Income
That's right: You can gift stocks, and the process needn't require going farther than your computer.

Here's, we look at how to gift stocks and why this may be an option you want to consider.

Advertisement
Should I gift stocks?
Before you give stock to someone, you should make sure it's the right gift to give. There are many benefits to gifting stock, but also important tax considerations to keep in mind.

Gifting stock instead of cash can be a great way to help younger investors with their savings and investing goals, says Nicholas B. Yeomans, a certified financial planner and president of Yeomans Consulting Group. "Over the years, we have witnessed receivers of stock choose to keep it instead of sell it and spend the cash, versus a younger receiver who receives cash – many times when it is more readily available to be spent, it will be."

If you gift stock to a charity, the charity doesn't have to pay any taxes on the gain. It can then "take the cash you would have given and make a new investment re-establishing a new basis," a real "win-win," Yeomans says.

Gifting stock can also benefit you as the giver, especially if the shares have appreciated in value since you bought them.

Gifting appreciated stocks allows you to "give away the gain," says Jere Doyle, an estate planning strategist at BNY Mellon Wealth Management. The recipient assumes the stock at your cost basis and holding period. If and when she chooses to sell it, she gets to realize the full gain.

This also means she realizes the full tax implications of the gain, but this may be a small price to pay. This is especially true if the receiver is in a low tax bracket and you've held the stock for more than a year so that it qualifies for the lower long-term capital gains tax rates.

You can give up to the annual gift tax exclusion amount each year without paying taxes on the gift or filing a gift tax return. In 2025 and 2026, that amount is $19,000 per person. Married couples can double this amount to $38,000 per recipient.

If you make the gift to a charitable organization, you also get to deduct its fair market value at the time of the contribution on your federal tax return. If you do this, Yeomans says it may also be a good time to consider a Roth conversion since the deduction can be used to offset some of the taxes from the conversion.

Be aware that you're not only giving away the shares when you gift stock. You're also giving away your right to any future cash flow, such as dividends, from that stock, Doyle says. Make sure you can afford to relinquish this before you make the gift.

How to gift stocks
You don't need to sell the stock before gifting it. Your adviser or brokerage firm can transfer ownership of the actual shares much like you'd transfer ownership of a car, except gifting stock is even easier if you hold digital shares.

Gifting stock can be as simple as calling your financial adviser or the firm that holds your stock currently and asking them to transfer the shares to the recipient for you. Most have an automated transfer process for moving stock "in kind" between accounts.

The recipient will, of course, need an account to receive the shares, and you'll need to know her account number and location. If she is a minor, you can open a custodial account, called an UGMA or UTMA, that lets you gift securities to a person who is underaged without giving the minor authority to sell the shares until she reaches the age of majority in her state.

In the meantime, you retain control over the assets in the UGMA or UTMA, but assets put into the account cannot be withdrawn except for the minor's benefit.

If you hold physical stock certificates that you want to give, the process is a bit more complicated. You'll need to fill out the assignment on the back of the certificate. You may also need to get your signature guaranteed, which, based on my experience working at Fidelity Investments, is similar to the notarization process but involves signing the certificate at a financial institution that provides Medallion signature guarantee services. Most institutions provide this service for free.

"If you are attempting to qualify for the gift tax annual exclusion or an income tax charitable deduction" for a specific year, make sure the gift is given in that year and not the next, Doyle adds.

Related content
7 Best Stocks to Gift Your Grandchildren
An End-of-Year Investing Checklist
Most-Overlooked Tax Breaks for Retirees and People Over 65
Get Kiplinger Today newsletter — free
Profit and prosper with the best of Kiplinger's advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and much more. Delivered daily. Enter your email in the box and click Sign Me Up.

Your Email Address

Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands

Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
Coryanne Hicks
Coryanne Hicks
Contributing Writer, Kiplinger.com
Coryanne Hicks is an investing and personal finance journalist specializing in women and millennial investors. Previously, she was a fully licensed financial professional at Fidelity Investments where she helped clients make more informed financial decisions every day. She has ghostwritten financial guidebooks for industry professionals and even a personal memoir. She is passionate about improving financial literacy and believes a little education can go a long way. You can connect with her on Twitter, Instagram or her website, CoryanneHicks.com.

Latest
Quiz: Do You Know How to Avoid the "Medigap Trap?"

5 Top Tax-Efficient Mutual Funds for Smarter Investing

AI Sparks Existential Crisis for Software Stocks
Fears that SaaS subscription software could be rendered obsolete by artificial intelligence make investors jittery.


Useful links
Subscribe
Subscriptions Store My Subscriptions Kiplinger App Kiplinger Newsletters
Kiplinger
About Kiplinger Readers' Choice Awards Kiplinger Puzzles Ask the Editor
Featured
Stock Market Today Economic Forecasts Adviser Intel Tools and Calculators
About Us
Contact Future's experts
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Advertise with us
Do not sell or share my personal information
Add as a preferred source on Google
Kiplinger is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.

© Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.

YOURS FREE, HOW TO LOWER YOUR TAXES
From just $107.88 $24.99 for Kiplinger Personal Finance
Become a smarter, better informed investor.
Subscribe from just $107.88 $24.99, plus get up to 4 Special Issues.


