Skip to main content
Experian logo.
Credit
Protection
Money
Credit Cards
Loans
Insurance
Sign in
ConsumerSmall BusinessBusiness
Consumer SupportFinancial GuidanceGlobal Sites
 / 
Personal finance
 / 
Investing
Can You Give Stock as a Gift?
Marianne Hayes profile image
By Marianne Hayes
Peggy Bennett profile image
Edited by Peggy Bennett
5 min read
Nov 24, 2025
In this article

How to Gift Stock
Benefits of Gifting Stock
Rules for Gifting Stock
What to Consider Before You Gift Stocks
Light bulb icon.
Quick Answer
You can gift stock to others by:

Transferring shares from your brokerage account
Opening a custodial account for a child
Using a stock-gifting platform
There are also potential tax benefits for the giver and receiver.

Mature woman showing something on the laptop to her partner
There are a variety of ways to give stock as a gift. That can include donating stock to charity, transferring stock to your loved ones or passing down your shares after you're gone. An added bonus is that this type of gift giving allows you to avoid capital gains tax. That can reduce your tax liability and help your gift have a bigger impact.

Let's explore how to gift stock to others, the benefits of doing so and some important things to consider beforehand.

How to Gift Stock
Whether you're looking to gift stock you own or purchase new shares, there are a few different ways to go about it. Below are three simple strategies for giving stock to others.

1. Transfer Shares From Your Brokerage Account
A brokerage account allows you to buy and sell securities like stocks, bonds, mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). You can use a brokerage account to gift stock in one of two ways:

Transfer existing shares out of your brokerage account. This is a simple way to give stock to loved ones. The catch is that the recipient must have a brokerage account to receive them. You can also transfer shares to a charitable organization that is able to accept stock donations.
Purchase new shares. While you can't use your brokerage account to buy stock on behalf of someone else, you can make the purchase through your own account and then transfer it to the recipient.
2. Open a Custodial Account for a Child
Giving stock to kids can be a great way to teach them about investing—and they'll also have years to benefit from compounding. A simple way to gift stock to minors is to open a custodial account. This is a brokerage account that's managed by an adult, but the securities held in the account technically belong to the minor. They'll assume control of the account when they come of age. This typically happens between 18 and 25, depending on what state they live in.

There are three main types of custodial investment accounts for kids:

Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (UGMA) account: You can use a UGMA account to purchase stocks and other assets for a child. There are no contribution limits, and adults can kick in up to $19,000 per recipient in 2025 and 2026 (or $38,000 for married couples who file jointly) without paying gift taxes on that money (more on this shortly).
Uniform Transfer to Minors Act (UTMA) account: This functions like a UGMA account but can hold physical assets as well, such as real estate and valuable family heirlooms. You might also be able to hold annuities and life insurance policies in a UTMA account. There are also no contribution limits and adults can contribute $19,000 per recipient in 2025 and 2026 (or $38,000 for married couples who file jointly).
Custodial IRA: If your child has earned income, you could open a custodial individual retirement account (IRA) on their behalf. That can allow you to buy stocks and other assets for them—and give your child a jump on their retirement savings. Custodial Roth IRAs also allow for tax-free withdrawals later down the line.
3. Consider a Stock-Gifting Platform
Another option is using an app or website that allows you to purchase single shares as a gift. Platforms like GiveAShare will even send the recipient a stock certificate. If the gift is for a minor, the custodian's name will also appear on the registered stock. Stockpile is an app that can be linked to a custodial brokerage account. That means you can purchase stock gifts and other securities right from your phone.

Invest Your Money Smarter

Browse top brokerages
Find a brokerage to start investing today. Compare offers with sign up bonuses and low or no fees.

Benefits of Gifting Stock
Whether you're giving stock as a gift or are on the receiving end, you might be in for some financial benefits.

Perks for the receiver: The recipient will receive an asset that might grow in value over time. That could lead to a nice payday if they eventually sell it, though be aware that those gains will likely count as taxable income. Some gifted stock may also pay dividends.
Perks for the giver: Giving stock as a gift can help you avoid paying capital gains tax. Let's say you buy shares for $500 and sell them for $1,500. You'd normally have to pay taxes on that $1,000 gain. But you won't be on the hook for capital gains tax if you gift the stock because you aren't realizing those gains for yourself.
Rules for Gifting Stock
As mentioned earlier, you can give up to $19,000 per person annually without incurring a tax penalty. Anything beyond that will count toward your lifetime gift tax exclusion limit and must be reported on your annual tax return. In 2025, the lifetime limit is $13.99 million but rises to $15 million in 2026 (this exemption applies to both gift and estate taxes).

If you're transferring shares from a brokerage account, make sure you have the recipient's account information. From there, you can contact your brokerage firm to initiate the transfer. They will likely require you to fill out a form to jumpstart the process.

What to Consider Before You Gift Stocks
Gifting stock to others can be a win-win for both parties, but it's important to understand the tax repercussions. Here are some key takeaways to consider before moving forward:

If the stock's value has increased since you bought it, you won't pay taxes on that gain. But if you sold the stock and gave the money to your loved one, you'd owe capital gains tax on that growth.
The recipient might have to pay capital gains tax if they sell the stock later on. In most cases, their cost basis will be the same as yours. That means they'll use the price you originally paid for the stock when calculating their capital gain. If you bought a share for $10 and the recipient eventually sells it for more than that, they'll have to pay taxes on that growth. Note that tax-exempt organizations like nonprofits will not be taxed on gains.
If the stock has gone down since you bought it, gifting it might not make sense. When you sell stock for less than you paid for it, that loss can help offset your total tax liability for the year. It might be better to sell it, report the loss and then give the proceeds to your loved one.
The recipient's tax liability will be different if you gift stock through your will. In this situation, the IRS determines capital gains tax using the stock price on the date of your death. Let's say you gifted stock that's worth $2,000 when you pass away. Your loved one could sell that stock for $2,000 and not owe any taxes. However, if they wait a couple years and sell the stock for $3,000, they'll owe taxes on the $1,000 gain.
Consider a trust. If you plan on gifting a significant amount of wealth, creating a living trust might be your best bet. Unlike a will, a trust does not go through the expensive and lengthy probate process. Trusts are also private and shielded from public record. You'll appoint a trustee to manage your trust assets and distribute them to your beneficiaries according to your wishes. You can also set up rules around when these financial gifts are given.
The Bottom Line
Stock can make a great gift that grows in value over time. Young children stand to benefit the most, thanks to the power of compounding. But it's important to understand how the process works—and the potential tax consequences of giving and receiving stock as a gift. You'll want to look at the larger financial picture to help you decide if gifting stock makes sense.

What makes a good credit score?
Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICO® Score for free and see what’s helping and hurting your score.

No credit card required

Promo icon.
About the author
Marianne Hayes
Marianne Hayes

Marianne Hayes is a longtime freelance writer who's been covering personal finance for nearly a decade. She specializes in everything from debt management and budgeting to investing and saving. Marianne has written for CNBC, Redbook, Cosmopolitan, Good Housekeeping and more.

Read more from Marianne
Explore more topics
Personal finance
Budgeting
Debt
Saving
Retirement
Taxes
Share article




Experian logo.
Experian is a globally recognized financial leader, committed to being a Big Financial Friend—empowering millions to take control of their finances. With innovative tools and expert guidance, we’re here to help you manage your credit, protect your identity, and save on loans, credit cards, and more. Our goal is simple: to help bring Financial Power to All™.

Support

Security freeze
Fraud alert
Disputes
Denied credit
Identity theft victim assistance
Active duty military
Opt out of prescreen offers
Upload a document to Experian
Education & advice

Credit report & scores
Fraud & identity theft
Banking
Credit cards
Loans
Insurance
Mortgage
Investing
Personal finance
News & research
Credit resources

Free credit monitoring
3-bureau reports & FICO® Scores
Check credit
Improve credit
Establish credit
Experian CreditLock
Annual credit report
Experian app.
Download the free Experian app
Carry trusted financial tools with you

Experian's Diversity logo.
Experian’s Inclusion and Belonging
Learn more how Experian is committed

Data privacy logo.
Data privacy
Your privacy choices


Legal terms & conditions
Privacy center
U.S. data privacy policy
Press
Ad choices
Careers
Investor relations
Contact us
To view important disclosures about the Experian Smart Money™ Digital Checking Account and Digital Savings Account, visit experian.com/legal.

The Experian Smart Money™ Debit Card is issued by Community Federal Savings Bank (CFSB), pursuant to a license from Mastercard International. Banking services provided by CFSB, Member FDIC. Experian is a Program Manager, not a bank.

ΘCredit score calculated based on FICO® Score 8 model. Your lender or insurer may use a different FICO® Score than FICO® Score 8, or another type of credit score altogether. Learn more.

Editorial Policy: The information contained in Ask Experian is for educational purposes only and is not legal advice. You should consult your own attorney or seek specific advice from a legal professional regarding any legal issues. Please understand that Experian policies change over time. Posts reflect Experian policy at the time of writing. While maintained for your information, archived posts may not reflect current Experian policy.

Opinions expressed here are author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer or other company, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities, unless sponsorship is explicitly indicated. All information, including rates and fees, are accurate as of the date of publication and are updated as provided by our partners. Some of the offers on this page may not be available through our website.

Offer pros and cons are determined by our editorial team, based on independent research. The banks, lenders, and credit card companies are not responsible for any content posted on this site and do not endorse or guarantee any reviews.

Advertiser Disclosure: The offers that appear on this site are from third party companies that may compensate Experian Consumer Services when consumers engage with them, for example, by clicking an offer link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened. This compensation may impact how, where, and in what order the products appear on this site. The offers on the site do not represent all available financial services, companies, or products.

*For complete information, see the offer terms and conditions on the issuer or partner’s website. Once you click apply you will be directed to the issuer or partner’s website where you may review the terms and conditions of the offer before applying. We show a summary, not the full legal terms – and before applying you should understand the full terms of the offer as stated by the issuer or partner itself. While Experian Consumer Services uses reasonable efforts to present the most accurate information, all offer information is presented without warranty.

© 2026 Experian. All rights reserved.

Experian and the Experian trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Experian and its affiliates. The use of any other trade name, copyright, or trademark is for identification and reference purposes only and does not imply any association with the copyright or trademark holder of their product or brand. Other product and company names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.

Marketplace Licenses and Disclosures
Insurance State Licenses
Insurance Carrier Partner Details
