
Saving and Investing
Why EarlyBird is the Ultimate Upgrade to Unest for Building Your Family's Legacy
Here are all the reasons you should choose EarlyBird over Unest when deciding on which app to use to invest in your child's future.

By

Jordan Wexler
Last updated:

May 28, 2024


5 Minutes

EarlyBird helps parents, family, and friends collectively invest in a child’s financial future. Learn more.

What You'll Learn
Curate a Generational Multimedia Masterpiece
Record Priceless Words of Wisdom
Invite Contributions from Your Entire Family Tree
Invest for Their Future Too
Summary

As parents, we all want to give our kids the best possible future. Apps like Unest make it easy to open an 
investment account
 and start building a 
financial foundation
 for things like college or a first home down payment.

But what if you could go beyond just saving money, and actually create an immersive, 
multimedia time capsule
 overflowing with your entire family's stories, wisdom, treasured moments and incredible opportunities? A true 
generational legacy
?

That's exactly what EarlyBird offers. While Unest focuses solely on investments, EarlyBird enables you to craft a living, breathing heirloom that captures the emotional, historical AND financial legacy you want to leave your children.

Curate a Generational Multimedia Masterpiece
‍With EarlyBird, you can curate and combine all your photos, videos, audio recordings and writings into a unified digital capsule. More than just documentation, you build an immersive experience with narratives, themes and depth to pass down through generations.


Record Priceless Words of Wisdom
‍At its core, EarlyBird allows you and loved ones to record 
personal video messages
 speaking directly to your children. You can impart wisdom, share stories, milestones and most importantly, express just how much you love them.


Invite Contributions from Your Entire Family Tree
‍With sharing capabilities, relatives can contribute their own video messages, media and stories to your capsule. Imagine your kids having a personalized piece from every branch of their family tree!


Invest for Their Future Too
‍Just like Unest, EarlyBird enables you to open an 
investment account
 to start building 
real wealth
 for your children's future goals like college, first homes, businesses and more. But it combines this with the ability to leave an 
emotional inheritance
 too.


Summary
So if you're looking for more than just an 
investment account
 like Unest offers, and want to create a true multimedia legacy overflowing with family wisdom, stories, priceless moments AND a financial headstart, EarlyBird is the ultimate 
generational legacy
 builder.

Because at the end of the day, the greatest inheritance you can leave isn't just money - it's the bonds of love, life lessons, family history and giving your kids a launchpad to thrive from every dimension of wealth, not just the financial ones. That's the power of EarlyBird.

This page contains general information and does not contain financial advice. All investments involve risk. Any hypothetical performance shown is for illustrative purposes only. Actual investment performance may be different for many reasons, including, but not limited to, market fluctuations, time horizon, taxes, and fees. Please consult a qualified financial advisor and/or tax professional for investment guidance.


Author
Jordan Wexler
CEO, Co-Founder
EarlyBird CEO and co-founder, Jordan Wexler, is a loving uncle to two beautiful children and a godparent of twins. It was when he welcomed these children into the world and showered them with gifts that he first saw the core problem EarlyBird needed to solve—that there was no simple and meaningful way to gift a financial asset or invest in the children we love most. Launched publicly in December 2020, EarlyBird has since helped over 100K families start their journeys toward building generational wealth.

Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Stay in the loop
Join the EarlyBird Newsletter!
alexdough@email.com




You might also enjoy

Pension vs. 401(k): What’s the Difference?

EarlyBird April Fireside Chat with Emma Clark from Sweater Ventures

How to Start Investing at 18 (Or Even Earlier)





FAQ
Blog
Legal
Careers
Support
support@getearlybird.io
This website is operated by EarlyBird Central Inc., an SEC-registered Investment Advisor. Brokerage services are provided to clients of EarlyBird Central Inc. by Apex Clearing Corporation, an SEC-registered broker-dealer and member FINRA. Apex Clearing Corporation is a member of SIPC. SIPC protects against the loss of cash and securities held by a customer at a financially-troubled SIPC-member brokerage firm. The limit for SIPC protection is $500,000. For details, please see www.sipc.org.

Important Disclosures: Investing involves risk, including loss of principal. Read more

