Please note: This website includes an accessibility system. Press Control-F11 to adjust the website to people with visual disabilities who are using a screen reader; Press Control-F10 to open an accessibility menu.
Accessibility
Press enter for Accessibility for blind peoplewho use screen readers
Press enter for Keyboard Navigation
Press enter for Accessibility menu
Acorns
Help Center
Acorns Help Center
Investing With Acorns
Early: General Questions
How can my friends and family contribute to an Acorns Early Invest account?
Article author
OSF A.
Updated 1 month ago
Thanks for investing in the next generation! 

To send an Acorns Early Invest giftlink from the Acorns app:

Log into your Acorns account
Select the child’s Acorns Early Invest account
Select "Ask for Gifts"
Select "Share" 
To send an Acorns Early Invest giftlink from your Acorns Early app: 

Log into your Acorns Early account and select the child
Tap “Ask for Gifts”
Follow the easy steps
Your friends and family will receive a special link that guides them through the gifting experience. They’ll be able to choose an amount, set a delivery date, and include a personal message. On the scheduled date, the gift and message will automatically show up in your child’s Early Invest account.

💡 Heads Up: Credit cards aren’t accepted, but debit cards are welcome.

🌱 Why this matters: Every contribution, big or small, helps give the kids in your life a stronger financial start. And remember, for customers on an Acorns Gold subscription, new investments in Acorns Early Invest are eligible for a 1% match, so their gift can become even more. 

From acorns mighty oaks do grow. Thank you for helping the next generation grow their oak!

Disclosures

Acorns Early Invest is an UTMA/UGMA investment account managed by an adult custodian until the minor beneficiary reaches the selected age of transfer, at which point the minor assumes control of the account assets. Money in a custodial account is the property of the minor.

Customers in the Acorns Gold Subscription Plan (through either the Acorns or Acorns Early App) are automatically eligible for a 1% "Early Invest Match" promotion on deposits by the Customer of up to $7,000 a year per Early Invest Account. All funds must be held in the applicable Acorns Early Invest Account for at least four years of the Early Invest Match deposit date or until the beneficiary reaches the applicable Age of Transfer, whichever is earlier. The Early Invest Match will be subject to recapture by Acorns if funds are withdrawn from the Early Invest Account during the four year period, up to the amount for which a 1% Early Invest Match was received. The Early Invest Match will also be subject to recapture if a customer downgrades to a Subscription Plan with a lower monthly fee within this period. See full terms and conditions.

Articles in this section
Can I transfer the Early Invest account to another firm?
What is Acorns Early Invest?
Why did Zeta join Acorns?
Can I open an Early account for all of my children?
When can kids access money in their Early Invest accounts?
How do I add another child to Early Invest?
How do I set up an Acorns Early Invest account?
What is the age of transfer?
What happens when my kid reaches the age of transfer?
How do I manage my kid's investments?
See more

Products
Invest for your future
Later starts today
Earn extra money
Early investors
Bank smarter
Who we are
About
Careers
Press
Oak Trees Planted
Investor Relations
Why start now
Grow your knowledge
Money Basics
Acorns logo
PricingStoreLegalPrivacy Policy
InstagramTwitterFacebookWheelchair icon
Investing involves risk, including the loss of principal. Please consider your objectives, risk tolerance, and Acorns’ fees before investing. Investment products and services offered by Acorns Advisers, LLC (Acorns), an SEC Registered Investment Adviser. Brokerage products and services are provided by Acorns Securities, LLC, an SEC registered Broker Dealer, Member FINRA/SIPC. Investment products are NOT FDIC INSURED, NOT BANK GUARANTEED, and MAY LOSE VALUE. View additional investing disclosures.
 
Acorns is not a bank. Acorns Visa™ debit cards and banking services are issued and provided by Lincoln Savings Bank and nbkc bank, Members FDIC. Acorns Mighty Oak Visa™ debit cards and banking services are issued and provided by nbkc bank, Member FDIC, to Acorns Mighty Oak checking account holders that are U.S. residents over the age of eighteen (18).
 
Acorns Early is not a bank. The Acorns Early card is issued by nbkc Bank, Member FDIC, pursuant to license by Visa®, and Community Federal Savings Bank, member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International. Cardholder Terms and limits apply.
  
Acorns, GoHenry, Round-Ups® investments, Real-Time Round-Ups® investments, Invest the Change and the Acorns logo are registered trademarks of Acorns Grow Incorporated. All product and company names are trademarks™ or registered® trademarks of their respective holders. Use of them does not imply any affiliation with or endorsement by them.
  
Acorns Wrap Fee Brochure | Form CRS | FINRA’s BrokerCheck
 
For additional important risks, disclosures, and information, please visit https://www.acorns.com/important-disclosures/.
 
© 2026 Acorns Grow Incorporated | Accessibility
Need Help?
